Condition
Abdominal aortic aneurysm
Home Remedies
Your health care provider may tell you to avoid heavy lifting and vigorous physical activity. These activities may cause extreme increases in blood pressure, which can worsen an aneurysm.
Emotional stress also can raise blood pressure. Try to avoid conflict and stressful situations. If you're feeling stressed or anxious, let your care provider know. Together you can come up with the best treatment plan.
Symptoms=Abdominal aortic aneurysms often grow slowly without noticeable symptoms. This makes them difficult to detect. Some aneurysms never rupture. Many start small and stay small. Others grow larger over time, sometimes quickly.
If you have a growing abdominal aortic aneurysm, you might notice:
Deep, constant pain in the belly area or side of the belly.
Back pain.
A pulse near the bellybutton.
Risk Factors
Abdominal aortic aneurysm risk factors include:
Tobacco use. Smoking is the strongest risk factor for aortic aneurysms. Smoking can weaken the walls of blood vessels, including the aorta. This raises the risk of aortic aneurysm and aneurysm rupture. The longer and more you use tobacco, the greater the chances are of developing an aortic aneurysm. Men ages 65 to 75 who are current or former smokers should have a one-time ultrasound to screen for an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Age. Abdominal aortic aneurysms occur most often in people age 65 and older.
Being male. Men develop abdominal aortic aneurysms much more often than women do.
Being white. People who are white are at higher risk of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
Family history. Having a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysms increases the risk of having the condition.
Other aneurysms. Having an aneurysm in the aorta in the chest (thoracic aortic aneurysm) or in another large blood vessel, such as the artery behind the knee, might increase the risk of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
If you're at risk of an aortic aneurysm, medicines may be given to lower your blood pressure and relieve stress on weakened arteries.
Prevention
To prevent an abdominal aortic aneurysm or to keep one from worsening, do the following:
Don't smoke or use tobacco products. If you smoke or chew tobacco, quit. Also avoid secondhand smoke. If you need help quitting, talk to your health care provider about strategies that may help.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, chicken, fish, and low-fat dairy products. Avoid saturated and trans fats and limit salt.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. If your care provider prescribed medicines, take them as instructed.
Get regular exercise. Try to get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity. If you haven't been active, start slowly and build up. Talk to your health care provider about what kinds of activities are right for you.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/35/ds01194_-my00076_im04478_mcdc7_abaneurysmthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Absence seizure
Home Remedies
Dietary therapy
A ketogenic diet can improve seizure control. This diet is high in fat and low in carbohydrates. It's used only if traditional medicines fail to control the seizures.
This diet isn't easy to maintain, but it's successful at reducing seizures for some people. Variations on a ketogenic diet also might provide benefit. These diets include the glycemic index and modified Atkins diets. Although these diets are less effective at controlling seizures, they aren't as restrictive as the ketogenic diet.
Additional options
Here are other steps that may help with seizure control:
Have your child take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your child's health care provider. If you feel your child's medicine should be changed, discuss it with your child's provider.
Encourage enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure your child gets adequate rest every night.
Have your child wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency personnel know how to treat your child correctly if another seizure occurs.
Ask your child's health care provider about driving or recreation restrictions. Someone with a seizure disorder will have to be seizure-free for a certain length of time before being able to drive. The amount of time required since the last seizure varies from state to state. Don't bathe or swim unless someone else is nearby to help if needed.
Symptoms=A simple absence seizure causes a vacant stare, which may be mistaken for a brief lapse in attention. The seizure lasts about 10 seconds, though it may last as long as 30 seconds. There's no confusion, headache or drowsiness after the seizure.
Symptoms of absence seizures include:
A sudden stop in activity without falling.
Lip smacking.
Eyelid flutters.
Chewing motions.
Finger rubbing.
Small movements of both hands.
Afterward, there's usually no memory of the incident. But if the seizure is longer, the person may be aware of missed time. Some people have many episodes daily. When it happens, it can interfere with school or daily activities.
A child may have absence seizures for some time before an adult notices them. This is because the seizures are so brief. A decline in a child's learning ability may be the first sign of the seizure disorder. Teachers may say the child has trouble paying attention or that a child is often daydreaming.
Risk Factors
Certain factors are common to children who have absence seizures, including:
Age. Absence seizures are more common in children between the ages of 4 and 14.
Sex. Absence seizures are more common in females.
Family members who have seizures. Nearly a quarter of children with absence seizures have a close relative who has seizures.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Acne
Home Remedies
You can try to avoid or control mild or moderate acne with nonprescription products, good basic skin care and other self-care techniques:
Wash problem areas with a gentle cleanser. Twice a day, use your hands to wash your face with mild soap or a gentle cleanser (Cetaphil, Vanicream, others) and warm water. And be gentle if you're shaving affected skin.
Avoid certain products, such as facial scrubs, astringents and masks. They tend to irritate the skin, which can worsen acne. Too much washing and scrubbing also can irritate the skin.
Try over-the-counter acne products to dry excess oil and promote peeling. Look for products containing benzoyl peroxide and adapalene as the active ingredients. You might also try products containing salicylic acid, glycolic acid or alpha hydroxy acids. It may take a few weeks of using a product before you see any improvement.
Creams are less irritating than gels or ointments. Nonprescription acne medications may cause initial side effects — such as redness, dryness and scaling — that often improve after the first month of using them.
Avoid irritants. Oily or greasy cosmetics, sunscreens, hairstyling products or acne concealers can worsen acne. Instead, use products labeled water-based or noncomedogenic, which means they are less likely to cause acne.
Protect your skin from the sun. For some people, the sun worsens the discoloration that sometimes lingers after the acne has cleared. And some acne medications make you more susceptible to sunburn. Check with your doctor to see if your medication is one of these. If it is, stay out of the sun as much as possible. Regularly use a nonoily (noncomedogenic) moisturizer that includes a sunscreen.
Avoid friction or pressure on your skin. Protect your acne-prone skin from contact with items such as phones, helmets, tight collars or straps, and backpacks.
Avoid touching or picking acne-prone areas. Doing so can trigger more acne or lead to infection or scarring.
Shower after strenuous activities. Oil and sweat on your skin can lead to breakouts.
More Information
Nonprescription acne treatment: Which products work best?
Symptoms=Cystic acne
Enlarge image
Acne signs vary depending on the severity of your condition:
Whiteheads (closed plugged pores)
Blackheads (open plugged pores)
Small red, tender bumps (papules)
Pimples (pustules), which are papules with pus at their tips
Large, solid, painful lumps under the skin (nodules)
Painful, pus-filled lumps under the skin (cystic lesions)
Acne usually appears on the face, forehead, chest, upper back and shoulders.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for acne include:
Age. People of all ages can get acne, but it's most common in teenagers.
Hormonal changes. Such changes are common during puberty or pregnancy.
Family history. Genetics plays a role in acne. If both of your parents had acne, you're likely to develop it too.
Greasy or oily substances. You may develop acne where your skin comes into contact with oil or oily lotions and creams.
Friction or pressure on your skin. This can be caused by items such as telephones, cellphones, helmets, tight collars and backpacks.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Acute coronary syndrome
Home Remedies
Heart-healthy lifestyle changes are an important part of preventing a heart attack. Lifestyle changes include the following:
Don't smoke. If you smoke, quit. Talk to your health care team if you need help quitting. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit low-fat dairy products and lean meats.
Be active. Regular exercise helps improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity five or more days a week. If you have not been exercising, talk to your health care team about the best way to begin a healthy and safe exercise routine.
Check your cholesterol. Have your blood cholesterol levels checked regularly at a medical office. Avoid high-fat, high-cholesterol meat and dairy. Take a statin or other cholesterol-lowering medicine daily as directed by your health care provider.
Control your blood pressure. Have your blood pressure checked regularly by your health care provider. Take blood pressure medicine daily as recommended.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much weight strains the heart. It also can lead to high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease and other conditions. Talk with your care team to set realistic goals for weight.
Manage stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress. Talk to your health care team or a mental health care professional if you need help managing stress.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your health care team about strategies that might help.
Symptoms=The symptoms of acute coronary syndrome usually begin suddenly. They include:
Chest pain or discomfort. This is often described as aching, pressure, tightness or burning. Chest pain also is called angina.
Pain that starts in the chest and spreads to other parts of the body. These areas include the shoulders, arms, upper belly area, back, neck or jaw.
Nausea or vomiting.
Indigestion.
Shortness of breath, also called dyspnea.
Sudden, heavy sweating.
Racing heartbeat.
Feeling lightheaded or dizzy.
Fainting.
Unusual fatigue.
Chest pain or discomfort is the most common symptom. But symptoms may vary quite a bit depending on your age, sex and other medical conditions. You're more likely to have symptoms without chest pain or discomfort if you're a woman, an older adult or have diabetes.
Risk Factors
The risk factors for acute coronary syndrome are the same as those for other types of heart disease. Risk factors include:
Getting older.
High blood pressure.
High blood cholesterol.
Smoking tobacco.
Lack of physical activity.
Eating an unhealthy diet.
Obesity or overweight.
Diabetes.
Personal or family history of chest pain, heart attacks or stroke.
History of high blood pressure, preeclampsia or diabetes during pregnancy, and early menopause.
COVID-19 infection.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Acute kidney injury
Home Remedies
During your recovery from acute kidney injury, a special diet can help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Your healthcare team may send you to a dietitian. A dietitian can look at what you eat and suggest ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Your dietitian may suggest that you:
Choose foods lower in potassium. These include apples, peaches, carrots, green beans and white bread and white rice. Eat them instead of foods higher in potassium. These include potatoes, bananas, tomatoes, oranges, beans and nuts.
Don't eat foods with added salt. This includes many packaged foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Limit phosphorus. Phosphorus is a mineral found in foods, such as dark-colored sodas, milk, oatmeal and bran cereals. Too much phosphorus in your blood can weaken your bones and cause your skin to itch.
As your kidneys get better, you may no longer need a special diet. But healthy eating still is important.
Symptoms=Symptoms of acute kidney injury may include:
Less urine output.
Fluid buildup, which can cause shortness of breath and swelling in the legs, ankles or feet.
Tiredness.
Confusion or fogginess.
Nausea.
Pain in the belly or in the side below the rib cage.
Weakness.
Irregular heartbeat.
Itching.
Loss of appetite.
Chest pain or pressure.
Seizures or coma in severe cases.
Sometimes acute kidney injury causes no symptoms. Then it may be found through lab tests done for something else.
Risk Factors
Acute kidney injury almost always is linked to another medical condition or event. Conditions that can increase your risk of acute kidney injury include:
Ongoing kidney disease, also called chronic kidney disease.
Older age, but it does happen to children.
Being in the hospital, most often for a serious condition that needs intensive care.
Blockages in the blood vessels in your arms or legs, called peripheral artery disease.
Diabetes, especially if it's not controlled.
High blood pressure.
Heart failure.
Liver diseases.
Certain cancers and their treatments.
Prevention
You might cut your risk of acute kidney injury by taking care of your kidneys. Try to:
Get treated quickly for bad infections.
Work with your healthcare team to manage kidney and other ongoing conditions. Kidney disease, diabetes or high blood pressure increases your risk of acute kidney injury. If you have one of these, do what your healthcare team tells you to manage your condition.
If you have risk factors for kidney disease, check with your healthcare team to be sure that prescription medicines you take are safe for your kidneys.
Read labels when taking pain medicines available without a prescription. Do what the label says when taking medicines such as aspirin, acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve). Taking too much of these medicines may increase your risk of kidney injury. This is especially true if you already have kidney disease, diabetes or high blood pressure.
Live a healthy lifestyle. Be active and eat a healthy, balanced diet. If you drink alcohol, drink only in moderation.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Acute sinusitis
Home Remedies
Neti pot
Enlarge image
These steps can help relieve sinusitis symptoms:
Rest. Rest helps the body fight infection and speed recovery.
Drink fluids. Keep drinking plenty of fluids.
Use a warm compress. A warm compress on the nose and forehead might help lessen pressure in the sinuses.
Keep sinuses moist. Breathing in the steam from a bowl of hot water with a towel over the head might help. Or take a hot shower, breathing in the warm, moist air. This will help ease pain and help mucus drain.
Rinse the inside of the nose. Use a specially designed squeeze bottle (Sinus Rinse, others) or neti pot. This home remedy, called nasal lavage, can help clear sinuses.
Symptoms=Acute sinusitis symptoms often include:
Thick, yellow or greenish mucus from the nose, known as a runny nose, or down the back of the throat, known as postnasal drip.
Blocked or stuffy nose, known as congestion. This makes it hard to breathe through the nose.
Pain, tenderness, swelling and pressure around the eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead that gets worse when bending over.
Other signs and symptoms include:
Ear pressure.
Headache.
Aching in the teeth.
Changed sense of smell.
Cough.
Bad breath.
Tiredness.
Fever.
Risk Factors
The following can raise the risk of getting sinusitis:
Hay fever or another allergy that affects the sinuses.
A common cold that affects the sinuses.
A problem inside the nose, such as a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps or tumors.
A medical condition such as cystic fibrosis or an immune system disorder such as HIV/AIDS.
Being around smoke, either from smoking or being around others who smoke, known as secondhand smoke.
Prevention
Take these steps to help lower your risk of getting acute sinusitis:
Stay well. Try to stay away from people who have colds or other infections. Wash your hands often with soap and water, such as before meals.
Manage allergies. Work with your health care provider to keep symptoms under control.
Avoid cigarette smoke and polluted air. Tobacco smoke and other pollutants can irritate lungs and inside the nose, known as nasal passages.
Use a machine that adds moisture to the air, known as a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, adding moisture to the air may help prevent sinusitis. Be sure the humidifier stays clean and free of mold with regular, complete cleaning.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2016/04/07/14/56/mcdc7_acute_sinusitis-8col.jpg
Condition
Adjustment disorders
Home Remedies
Here are some steps you can take to care for your emotional well-being.
Tips to help make you more resilient
Resilience is the ability to adapt well to stress, hardships, a disturbing or harmful experience, or tragedy. It's the ability to bounce back after going through a very hard time. Building resilience may vary from person to person, but these strategies can help:
Stay connected with loved ones and friends who are positive and support you in healthy ways.
Do something that brings you joy and gives you a sense of accomplishment and purpose every day.
Live a healthy lifestyle that includes good sleep, a healthy diet and regular physical activity.
Practice mindfulness, such as through journaling, prayer or yoga.
Learn from past experiences about how you can make your coping skills better.
Be hopeful about the future and try to be positive.
Stay away from alcohol, drugs and other addictive substances.
Look for and develop your personal strengths.
Face your fears and accept challenges.
Work to achieve your goals.
Plan to handle problems when they occur rather than not face them.
Find support
It may help you to talk things over with loved ones and friends. You also can ask for support from a faith community or find a support group for your situation.
Talk to your child about stressful events
If your child is finding it hard to adjust, try gently urging your child to talk about what they're going through. Many parents assume that talking about a hard change, such as divorce, will make a child feel worse. But your child needs to be able to express feelings of grief and hear you tell them that you'll remain a constant source of love and support.
Symptoms=Symptoms depend on the type of adjustment disorder. These symptoms can vary from person to person. You experience more stress than would generally be expected in response to a trying event, and this stress causes a lot of problems in your life.
Adjustment disorders affect how you feel and think about yourself and the world. They also may affect your actions or behavior.
Some examples include:
Feeling sad, hopeless or not enjoying things you used to enjoy.
Crying often.
Worrying, or feeling anxious, nervous, jittery or stressed out.
Feeling irritable or like you can't handle anything and don't know where to start.
Having trouble sleeping.
Not eating enough.
Having difficulty concentrating.
Having difficulty with daily activities.
Withdrawing from family and friends who support you socially.
Not doing important things, such as going to work or paying bills.
Thinking about suicide or acting on those thoughts.
Symptoms of an adjustment disorder start within three months of a stressful event. These symptoms last no longer than six months after the end of the stressful event. But constant or lasting adjustment disorders can continue for more than six months. This is especially true if the stressful event is ongoing, such as being unemployed.
Risk Factors
Stressful life events and experiences ― positive and negative ― may put you at risk of having an adjustment disorder. Examples include:
Major stress as a child, such as bullying or difficulties with school.
Divorce or marriage problems.
Relationship problems or trouble getting along with others.
Major changes in life, such as retirement, having a baby or moving away.
Bad experiences, such as losing a job, loss of a loved one or having money problems.
Problems in school or at work.
Life-threatening experiences, such as physical assault, combat or natural disaster.
Ongoing stressors, such as having a medical illness or living in a neighborhood that has a lot of crime.
More than one major change or bad experience happening at the same time.
Other mental health conditions, such as major depression, intense anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder.
Prevention
There are no guaranteed ways to prevent adjustment disorders. But social support, healthy coping skills and learning to recover quickly from hard times may help you during times of high stress.
If you know that a stressful situation is coming up, such as a move or retirement, plan ahead. In advance, increase your healthy habits and ask your friends and family for support. Remind yourself that stressful situations pass in time and that you can get through them. Also, consider checking in with your health care team or mental health professional to review healthy ways to manage your stress.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Home Remedies
Because ADHD is a complex disorder and each person is unique, it's hard to make recommendations for all adults who have ADHD. But some of these suggestions may help:
Make a list of tasks to accomplish each day. Prioritize the items. Make sure you're not trying to do too much.
Break down tasks into smaller, more manageable steps. Consider using checklists.
Use sticky pads to write notes to yourself. Put them on the fridge, on the bathroom mirror, in the car or in other places where you'll see the reminders.
Keep an appointment book or electronic calendar to track appointments and deadlines.
Carry a notebook or electronic device with you so that you can note ideas or things you'll need to remember.
Take time to set up systems to file and organize information, both on your electronic devices and for paper documents. Get in the habit of using these systems consistently.
Follow a routine that's consistent from day to day and keep items, such as your keys and your wallet, in the same place.
Ask for help from family members or other loved ones.
Symptoms=Some people with ADHD have fewer symptoms as they age, but some adults continue to have major symptoms that interfere with daily functioning. In adults, the main features of ADHD may include difficulty paying attention, impulsiveness and restlessness. Symptoms can range from mild to severe.
Many adults with ADHD aren't aware they have it — they just know that everyday tasks can be a challenge. Adults with ADHD may find it difficult to focus and prioritize, leading to missed deadlines and forgotten meetings or social plans. The inability to control impulses can range from impatience waiting in line or driving in traffic to mood swings and outbursts of anger.
Adult ADHD symptoms may include:
Impulsiveness
Disorganization and problems prioritizing
Poor time management skills
Problems focusing on a task
Trouble multitasking
Excessive activity or restlessness
Poor planning
Low frustration tolerance
Frequent mood swings
Problems following through and completing tasks
Hot temper
Trouble coping with stress
What's typical behavior and what's ADHD?
Almost everyone has some symptoms similar to ADHD at some point in their lives. If your difficulties are recent or occurred only occasionally in the past, you probably don't have ADHD. ADHD is diagnosed only when symptoms are severe enough to cause ongoing problems in more than one area of your life. These persistent and disruptive symptoms can be traced back to early childhood.
Diagnosis of ADHD in adults can be difficult because certain ADHD symptoms are similar to those caused by other conditions, such as anxiety or mood disorders. And many adults with ADHD also have at least one other mental health condition, such as depression or anxiety.
Risk Factors
Risk of ADHD may increase if:
You have blood relatives, such as a parent or sibling, with ADHD or another mental health disorder
Your mother smoked, drank alcohol or used drugs during pregnancy
As a child, you were exposed to environmental toxins — such as lead, found mainly in paint and pipes in older buildings
You were born prematurely
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Adult Still disease
Home Remedies
Here are ways to make the most of your health if you have adult Still disease:
Understand your medicines. Even if you have no symptoms some days, it's important to take your medicines as your care provider recommends. Controlling inflammation helps reduce the risk of complications.
Supplement your diet. If you're taking high doses of prednisone, talk to your care provider about taking more calcium and vitamin D supplements to help prevent osteoporosis.
Keep moving. Although you might not want to work out if your joints ache, exercise is recommended for all types of arthritis. Exercise can help you keep your range of motion and relieve pain and stiffness.
Symptoms=Most people with adult Still disease have a combination of the following symptoms:
Fever. Fever may rise to at least 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38.9 degrees Celsius). The fever may spike once or twice a day for a week or longer.
Rash. A rash might come and go with the fever. The rash usually appears on the trunk, arms or legs.
Sore throat. This is one of the first symptoms of adult Still disease. The lymph nodes in the neck might be swollen and tender.
Achy and swollen joints. Joints — especially in the knees and wrists— might be stiff, painful and inflamed. Ankles, elbows, hands and shoulders also might ache. The joint discomfort usually lasts at least two weeks.
Muscle pain. Muscular pain usually comes and goes with the fever. The pain can be severe enough to disrupt daily activities.
Symptoms of this disorder can differ from person to person. They can mimic those of other conditions, including lupus and a type of cancer called lymphoma.
Risk Factors
Age is the main risk factor for adult Still disease. It is most likely to occur in adults between the ages of 15 and 25 and between the ages of 36 and 46. Males and females are equally at risk.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Albinism
Home Remedies
You can help your child learn self-care practices that should continue into adulthood:
Use low vision aids, such as a hand-held magnifying glass, a telescope or a magnifier that attaches to glasses. Another aid is a tablet connected to a digital whiteboard in the classroom. This is an interactive electronic board with a touch screen.
Always use sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or greater that protects against both UVA and UVB light.
Strictly avoid high-risk or lengthy sun exposure. Examples include being outside for long periods of time or in the middle of the day, at high altitudes, on or near water, and on sunny days with thin cloud cover.
Wear protective clothing, including clothes with color. Examples include long-sleeve, collared shirts, long pants and socks; broad-brimmed hats; and special UV-protection clothing.
Protect eyes by wearing dark, UV-blocking sunglasses. Another option is transition lenses called photochromic lenses, which darken in bright light.
Symptoms=Symptoms of albinism involve skin, hair and eye color, as well as vision.
Skin
The easiest form of albinism to see results in white hair and very light-colored skin compared with siblings or other blood relatives. But skin coloring, also called pigmentation, and hair color can range from white to brown. People of African descent who have albinism may have skin that is light brown or red brown and have freckles. For some people, skin color may be nearly the same as that of parents or siblings without albinism.
With exposure to the sun, some people may develop:
Freckles.
Moles, with or without color, which are sometimes pink.
Large freckle-like spots, called solar lentigines (len-TIJ-ih-neez).
Sunburn and no ability to tan.
For some people with albinism, skin coloring never changes. For others, melanin production may begin or increase during childhood and the teen years, resulting in slight changes in color.
Hair
Hair color can range from very white to brown. People of African or Asian descent who have albinism may have hair color that's yellow, red or brown. Hair color also may darken by early adulthood. Or hair may stain from contact with minerals in water and the environment, making hair appear darker with age.
Eye color
Eyelashes and eyebrows are often pale. Eye color can range from very light blue to brown and may change with age.
With albinism, the colored parts of the eyes, called the irises, usually don't have enough pigment. This allows light to shine through the irises and makes the eyes extremely sensitive to bright light. Because of this, very light-colored eyes may appear red in some lighting.
Vision
Vision problems are a key feature of all types of albinism. Eye problems may include:
Rapid, back-and-forth movement of the eyes that can't be controlled, called nystagmus.
An uncommon head position or head posture, such as tilting the head to try to reduce eye movements and see better.
Eyes that can't look at the same direction at the same time or they appear to be crossed, a condition called strabismus.
Problems seeing near objects or far objects, called farsightedness or nearsightedness.
Extreme sensitivity to light, called photophobia.
A difference in the curve of the front surface of the eye or the lens inside the eye, called astigmatism, which causes blurred vision.
Differences in the development of the thin layer of tissue on the inside back wall of the eye, called the retina. This difference results in reduced vision.
Nerve signals from the retina to the brain that don't follow the usual nerve pathways in the eye. This is called misrouting of the optic nerve.
Poor depth perception, which means not being able to see things in three dimensions and judge how far away an object is.
Legal blindness — vision less than 20/200 — or complete blindness.
Risk Factors
Risk factors depend on whether one or both parents carry an affected gene. Different types of albinism have different types of inheritance patterns.
Prevention
If a family member has albinism, a genetic counselor can help you understand the type of albinism and the chances of having a future child with albinism. The counselor can explain the available genetic tests.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Alcohol poisoning
Home Remedies
Home remedies for alcohol poisoning won't work. Alcohol poisoning is an emergency situation.
Dangerous myths
You can't reverse the effects of alcohol poisoning, and you could make things worse through some actions. Here's what doesn't work:
Sleeping it off. A person can lose consciousness while asleep.
Black coffee or caffeine. Coffee and other caffeinated drinks do not stop or reduce the effects of alcohol poisoning.
A cold shower. The shock of cold can cause a person to pass out.
Walking it off. This does not make alcohol leave the body faster.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=Alcohol poisoning symptoms include:
Confusion.
Vomiting.
Seizures.
Slow breathing, which is fewer than eight breaths a minute.
Breathing that's not regular. This is when there is a gap of more than 10 seconds between breaths.
Skin that looks blue, gray or pale.
Low body temperature, also known as hypothermia.
Trouble staying conscious or awake.
Risk Factors
Several factors can increase your risk of alcohol poisoning, including:
Your height and weight.
Health conditions that affect how your body processes alcohol.
Whether you've eaten recently.
Whether you've had alcohol along with other drugs, including medicines you take for health reasons.
The percentage of alcohol in your drinks.
How fast and how much alcohol you drink.
How your body processes alcohol.
Prevention
To avoid alcohol poisoning:
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to two drinks a day for males and one drink a day for females. When you drink, enjoy your drink slowly.
Don't drink alcohol along with certain medicines. Some medicines can cause harmful effects when taken with even small amounts of alcohol. And certain health conditions may mean it takes less alcohol than expected to reach the level of alcohol poisoning. Ask your health care provider if these risks apply to you.
Don't drink on an empty stomach. Having some food in your stomach may slow the process of absorbing alcohol somewhat. But it won't prevent alcohol poisoning during binge drinking.
Communicate with your teens. Talk to your teenagers about the dangers of alcohol, including binge drinking. Evidence suggests that children who are warned about alcohol by their parents and who report close relationships with their parents are less likely to start drinking.
Store products safely. If you have small children, store alcohol-containing products, including cosmetics, mouthwashes and medicines, out of their reach. Use childproof bathroom and kitchen cabinets to prevent access to household cleaners. Keep toxic items in your garage or storage area safely out of reach. Consider keeping alcoholic beverages under lock and key.
Get follow-up care. Ask about follow-up care for alcohol poisoning. Meeting with a health care provider, particularly an experienced chemical dependency counselor, can help prevent future binge drinking.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Alcohol use disorder
Home Remedies
As part of your recovery, you'll need to focus on changing your habits and making different lifestyle choices. These strategies may help:
Consider your social situation. Make it clear to your friends and family that you're not drinking alcohol. Develop a support system of friends and family who can support your recovery. You may need to distance yourself from friends and social situations that impair your recovery.
Develop healthy habits. For example, good sleep, regular physical activity, managing stress more effectively and eating well all can make it easier for you to recover from alcohol use disorder.
Do things that don't involve alcohol. You may find that many of your activities involve drinking. Replace them with hobbies or activities that are not centered around alcohol.
Symptoms=Alcohol use disorder can be mild, moderate or severe, based on the number of symptoms you experience. Signs and symptoms may include:
Being unable to limit the amount of alcohol you drink
Wanting to cut down on how much you drink or making unsuccessful attempts to do so
Spending a lot of time drinking, getting alcohol or recovering from alcohol use
Feeling a strong craving or urge to drink alcohol
Failing to fulfill major obligations at work, school or home due to repeated alcohol use
Continuing to drink alcohol even though you know it's causing physical, social, work or relationship problems
Giving up or reducing social and work activities and hobbies to use alcohol
Using alcohol in situations where it's not safe, such as when driving or swimming
Developing a tolerance to alcohol so you need more to feel its effect or you have a reduced effect from the same amount
Experiencing withdrawal symptoms — such as nausea, sweating and shaking — when you don't drink, or drinking to avoid these symptoms
Alcohol use disorder can include periods of being drunk (alcohol intoxication) and symptoms of withdrawal.
Alcohol intoxication results as the amount of alcohol in your bloodstream increases. The higher the blood alcohol concentration is, the more likely you are to have bad effects. Alcohol intoxication causes behavior problems and mental changes. These may include inappropriate behavior, unstable moods, poor judgment, slurred speech, problems with attention or memory, and poor coordination. You can also have periods called "blackouts," where you don't remember events. Very high blood alcohol levels can lead to coma, permanent brain damage or even death.
Alcohol withdrawal can occur when alcohol use has been heavy and prolonged and is then stopped or greatly reduced. It can occur within several hours to 4 to 5 days later. Signs and symptoms include sweating, rapid heartbeat, hand tremors, problems sleeping, nausea and vomiting, hallucinations, restlessness and agitation, anxiety, and occasionally seizures. Symptoms can be severe enough to impair your ability to function at work or in social situations.
What is considered 1 drink?
The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism defines one standard drink as any one of these:
12 ounces (355 milliliters) of regular beer (about 5% alcohol)
8 to 9 ounces (237 to 266 milliliters) of malt liquor (about 7% alcohol)
5 ounces (148 milliliters) of wine (about 12% alcohol)
1.5 ounces (44 milliliters) of hard liquor or distilled spirits (about 40% alcohol)
Risk Factors
Alcohol use may begin in the teens, but alcohol use disorder occurs more frequently in the 20s and 30s, though it can start at any age.
Risk factors for alcohol use disorder include:
Steady drinking over time. Drinking too much on a regular basis for an extended period or binge drinking on a regular basis can lead to alcohol-related problems or alcohol use disorder.
Starting at an early age. People who begin drinking — especially binge drinking — at an early age are at a higher risk of alcohol use disorder.
Family history. The risk of alcohol use disorder is higher for people who have a parent or other close relative who has problems with alcohol. This may be influenced by genetic factors.
Depression and other mental health problems. It's common for people with a mental health disorder such as anxiety, depression, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder to have problems with alcohol or other substances.
History of trauma. People with a history of emotional trauma or other trauma are at increased risk of alcohol use disorder.
Having bariatric surgery. Some research studies indicate that having bariatric surgery may increase the risk of developing alcohol use disorder or of relapsing after recovering from alcohol use disorder.
Social and cultural factors. Having friends or a close partner who drinks regularly could increase your risk of alcohol use disorder. The glamorous way that drinking is sometimes portrayed in the media also may send the message that it's OK to drink too much. For young people, the influence of parents, peers and other role models can impact risk.
Prevention
Early intervention can prevent alcohol-related problems in teens. If you have a teenager, be alert to signs and symptoms that may indicate a problem with alcohol:
Loss of interest in activities and hobbies and in personal appearance
Red eyes, slurred speech, problems with coordination and memory lapses
Difficulties or changes in relationships with friends, such as joining a new crowd
Declining grades and problems in school
Frequent mood changes and defensive behavior
You can help prevent teenage alcohol use:
Set a good example with your own alcohol use.
Talk openly with your child, spend quality time together and become actively involved in your child's life.
Let your child know what behavior you expect — and what the consequences will be for not following the rules.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Allergies
Home Remedies
Some allergy symptoms get better with steps that you can take at home:
Sinus congestion and hay fever symptoms. These often get better with saline nasal sprays. These sprays rinse out the sinuses with a salt and water solution. You can use a neti pot or a specially designed squeeze bottle to flush out thickened mucus and irritants from your nose. But be aware that using a neti pot or other device wrong can lead to infection.
Household airborne allergy symptoms. Lessen your exposure to dust mites or pet dander by washing bedding and stuffed toys in hot water often. Also, keep the indoor humidity level low. And regularly using a vacuum with a fine filter such as a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter. Think about replace carpeting with hard flooring too.
Mold allergy symptoms. Reduce moisture in damp areas, such as your bath and kitchen, by using ventilation fans and dehumidifiers. Fix leaks inside and outside your home. You also can improve airflow by leaving doors between rooms open and moving furniture away from walls.
Symptoms=Allergy symptoms depend on what allergen is involved. The symptoms can affect the airways, sinuses and nasal passages, skin, and digestive system. Allergic reactions can range from mild to severe. Sometimes, allergies can trigger a life-threatening reaction known as anaphylaxis.
Hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis, can cause:
Sneezing.
Itching of the skin, nose, eyes or roof of the mouth.
Runny, stuffy nose.
Tiredness, also called fatigue.
Watery, red or swollen eyes, also called allergic conjunctivitis.
A food allergy can cause:
Tingling in the mouth.
Swelling of the lips, tongue, face or throat.
Itchy welts called hives.
Stuffy nose, sneezing or teary eyes that itch.
Stomach cramps, vomiting or diarrhea.
Anaphylaxis.
An insect sting allergy can cause:
Pain and a large area of swelling called edema at the sting site.
Itching or hives all over the body.
Skin warmth and a change in skin color, also called flushing.
Cough, chest tightness, wheezing or shortness of breath.
Anaphylaxis.
A medicine allergy can cause:
Hives.
Itchy skin or rash.
Facial swelling.
Wheezing.
Shortness of breath.
Vomiting or diarrhea.
Feeling dizzy.
Anaphylaxis.
Atopic dermatitis, an allergic skin condition also called eczema, can cause skin to:
Itch.
Form red or brown patches that may be harder to see on darker skin tones.
Flake, peel or crack.
Anaphylaxis
Some types of allergies can trigger a severe reaction known as anaphylaxis. Certain foods, insect stings and medicines are among the allergens that can set off this life-threatening emergency. Anaphylaxis can cause you to go into shock. Other symptoms include:
Passing out.
A drop in blood pressure.
Severe shortness of breath and throat tightness.
Skin rash with hives or welts.
Dizziness.
A rapid, weak pulse.
Upset stomach, vomiting or diarrhea.
A sense of doom.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for allergies include:
Having a family history of asthma or allergies, such as hay fever, hives or eczema.
Being a child.
Having asthma or another allergic condition.
Prevention
Preventing allergic reactions depends on the type of allergy you have. General measures include the following:
Stay away from known triggers. Do this even if you get treatment for your allergy symptoms. If, for instance, you're allergic to pollen, stay inside with windows and doors closed when pollen is high. If you're allergic to dust mites, dust and vacuum and wash bedding often. You also can use "mite-proof" covers for items such as pillows, comforters, mattresses and box springs.
Keep a diary. When trying to figure out what causes your allergic symptoms or makes them worse, track your activities and what you eat. Also note when symptoms happen and what seems to help. This may help you and your healthcare professional find your triggers.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. If you've had a severe allergic reaction, wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. It lets others know that you have a serious allergy in case you have a reaction and you're not able to speak.
More Information
Allergy-proof your home
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Alzheimer's disease
Home Remedies
Healthy lifestyle choices promote good overall health. They also may play a role in maintaining brain health.
Exercise
Regular exercise is an important part of a treatment plan. Activities such as a daily walk can help improve mood and maintain the health of joints, muscles and the heart. Exercise also promotes restful sleep and prevents constipation. It's beneficial for care partners, too.
People with Alzheimer's who have trouble walking may still be able to use a stationary bike, stretch with elastic bands or participate in chair exercises. You may find exercise programs geared to older adults on TV, the internet or DVDs.
Nutrition
People with Alzheimer's may forget to eat, lose interest in meals or may not eat healthy foods. They may also forget to drink enough, leading to dehydration and constipation.
Offer the following:
Healthy options. Buy favorite healthy food options that are easy to eat.
Water and other healthy beverages. Encourage drinking several glasses of liquids every day. Avoid beverages with caffeine, which can increase restlessness, interfere with sleep and trigger a need to urinate often.
High-calorie, healthy shakes and smoothies. Serve milkshakes with protein powders or make smoothies. This is helpful when eating becomes more difficult.
Social engagement and activities
Social activities can support preserved skills and abilities. They also help with over-all well-being. Do things that are meaningful and enjoyable. Someone with dementia might:
Listen to music or dance.
Read or listen to books.
Garden or do crafts.
Go to social events at senior or memory care centers.
Do activities with children.
Symptoms=Memory loss is the key symptom of Alzheimer's disease. Early signs include difficulty remembering recent events or conversations. But memory gets worse and other symptoms develop as the disease progresses.
At first, someone with the disease may be aware of having trouble remembering things and thinking clearly. As symptoms get worse, a family member or friend may be more likely to notice the issues.
Brain changes associated with Alzheimer's disease lead to growing trouble with:
Memory
Everyone has memory lapses at times, but the memory loss associated with Alzheimer's disease persists and gets worse. Over time, memory loss affects the ability to function at work or at home.
People with Alzheimer's disease may:
Repeat statements and questions over and over.
Forget conversations, appointments or events.
Misplace items, often putting them in places that don't make sense.
Get lost in places they used to know well.
Eventually forget the names of family members and everyday objects.
Have trouble finding the right words for objects, expressing thoughts or taking part in conversations.
Thinking and reasoning
Alzheimer's disease causes difficulty concentrating and thinking, especially about abstract concepts such as numbers.
Doing more than one task at once is especially difficult. It may be challenging to manage finances, balance checkbooks and pay bills on time. Eventually, a person with Alzheimer's disease may be unable to recognize and deal with numbers.
Making judgments and decisions
Alzheimer's disease causes a decline in the ability to make sensible decisions and judgments in everyday situations. For example, a person may make poor choices in social settings or wear clothes for the wrong type of weather. It may become harder for someone to respond to everyday problems. For example, the person may not know how to handle food burning on the stove or decisions when driving.
Planning and performing familiar tasks
Routine activities that require completing steps in order become a struggle. This may include planning and cooking a meal or playing a favorite game. Eventually, people with advanced Alzheimer's disease forget how to do basic tasks such as dressing and bathing.
Changes in personality and behavior
Brain changes that occur in Alzheimer's disease can affect moods and behaviors. Problems may include the following:
Depression.
Loss of interest in activities.
Social withdrawal.
Mood swings.
Distrust in others.
Anger or aggression.
Changes in sleeping habits.
Wandering.
Loss of inhibitions.
Delusions, such as believing something has been stolen.
Preserved skills
Despite major changes to memory and skills, people with Alzheimer's disease are able to hold on to some skills even as symptoms get worse. Preserved skills may include reading or listening to books, telling stories, sharing memories, singing, listening to music, dancing, drawing, or doing crafts.
These skills may be preserved longer because they're controlled by parts of the brain affected later in the course of the disease.
Risk Factors
Age
Increasing age is the greatest known risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's isn't a part of typical aging. But as you grow older, the chances of developing it increases.
One study found that every year there were four new diagnoses per 1,000 people ages 65 to 74. Among people ages 75 to 84, there were 32 new diagnoses per 1,000 people. For those 85 and older, there were 76 new diagnoses per 1,000 people.
Family history and genetics
The risk of developing Alzheimer's is somewhat higher if a first-degree relative — your parent or sibling — has the disease. Just how genes among families affect the risk is largely unexplained, and the genetic factors are likely complex.
A better understood genetic factor is a form of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene. A form of the gene, APOE e4, increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease. About 25% to 30% of the population carries APOE e4. But not everyone with this form of the gene develops the disease.
Scientists have found rare changes in three genes that virtually guarantee a person who inherits one of them will develop Alzheimer's. But these changes account for less than 1% of people with Alzheimer's disease.
Down syndrome
Many people with Down syndrome develop Alzheimer's disease. This is likely related to having three copies of chromosome 21. Chromosome 21 is the gene involved in the production of the protein that leads to the creation of beta-amyloid. Beta-amyloid fragments can become plaques in the brain. Symptoms tend to appear 10 to 20 years earlier in people with Down syndrome than they do for the general population.
Sex
Overall there are more women with the disease because they tend to live longer than men.
Mild cognitive impairment
Someone with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has a decline in memory or other thinking skills that is greater than usual for the person's age. But the decline doesn't prevent the person from functioning in social or work environments.
However, people with MCI have a significant risk of developing dementia. When MCI affects mainly memory, the condition is more likely to progress to dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. A diagnosis of MCI offers people the chance to put a greater focus on healthy lifestyle changes and to come up with strategies to make up for memory loss. They also can schedule regular health care appointments to monitor symptoms.
Head trauma
Several large studies found that people age 50 years or older who had a traumatic brain injury (TBI) had an increased risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The risk is even higher in people with more-severe and multiple TBIs. Some studies found that the risk may be greatest within the first six months to two years after the injury.
Air pollution
Studies in animals have found that air pollution particulates can speed the breakdown of the nervous system. And human studies have found that air pollution exposure — especially from traffic exhaust and burning wood — is linked to a greater dementia risk.
Excessive alcohol consumption
Drinking large amounts of alcohol has long been known to cause brain changes. Several large studies and reviews found that alcohol use disorders were linked to an increased risk of dementia — early-onset dementia in particular.
Poor sleep patterns
Research has shown that poor sleep patterns, such as trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, are linked to an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease.
Lifestyle and heart health
Research has shown that the same risk factors associated with heart disease also may increase the risk of dementia. It's unclear if these factors increase risk of dementia by worsening Alzheimer's changes in the brain or by leading to brain vascular changes. They include:
Lack of exercise.
Obesity.
Smoking or exposure to secondhand smoke.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Poorly controlled type 2 diabetes.
These factors can all be modified. Therefore, changing lifestyle habits can to some degree alter your risk. For example, regular exercise and a healthy low-fat diet rich in fruits and vegetables are related to a lower risk of Alzheimer's disease.
Lifelong learning and social engagement
Studies have found that socializing and engaging in activities that stimulate the mind throughout life can lower the risk of Alzheimer's disease. Low education levels — less than a high school education — appear to be a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease.
Prevention
Alzheimer's disease is not a preventable condition. However, a number of lifestyle risk factors can be modified.
Evidence suggests that taking steps to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease may also lower your risk of developing dementia.
To follow heart-healthy lifestyle choices that may reduce the risk of dementia:
Exercise regularly.
Eat a diet of fresh produce, healthy oils and foods low in saturated fat, such as a Mediterranean diet.
Follow treatment guidelines to manage high blood pressure, diabetes and high cholesterol.
If you smoke, ask your health care professional for help to quit.
One large, long-term study done in Finland found that making lifestyle changes helped reduce cognitive decline among people who were at risk of dementia. Those in the study were given individual and group sessions that focused on diet, exercise and social activities.
In another study done in Australia, people at risk of dementia were given coaching sessions on diet, exercise and other lifestyle changes. They had better results on cognitive tests after one, two and three years compared to people who didn't receive the coaching.
Other studies have shown that staying engaged mentally and socially is linked to preserved thinking skills later in life and a lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. This includes going to social events, reading, dancing, playing board games, creating art, playing an instrument and other activities.
More Information
Alzheimer's disease care at Mayo Clinic
Alzheimer's prevention: Does it exist?
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Amenorrhea
Home Remedies
Some lifestyle factors — such as too much exercise or too little food — can cause amenorrhea, so strive for balance in work, recreation and rest. Assess areas of stress and conflict in your life. If you can't decrease stress on your own, ask for help from family, friends or your doctor.
Be aware of changes in your menstrual cycle and check with your doctor if you have concerns. Keep a record of when your periods occur. Note the date your period starts, how long it lasts and any troublesome symptoms you experience.
Symptoms=Depending on the cause of amenorrhea, you might experience other signs or symptoms along with the absence of periods, such as:
Milky nipple discharge
Hair loss
Headache
Vision changes
Excess facial hair
Pelvic pain
Acne
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of amenorrhea include:
Family history. If other women in your family have experienced amenorrhea, you may have inherited a predisposition for the problem.
Eating disorders. If you have an eating disorder, such as anorexia or bulimia, you are at higher risk of developing amenorrhea.
Athletic training. Rigorous athletic training can increase your risk of amenorrhea.
History of certain gynecologic procedures. If you've had a D&C, especially related to pregnancy, or a procedure known as loop electrodiathermy excision procedure (LEEP), your risk of developing amenorrhea is higher.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anal fissure
Home Remedies
Several lifestyle changes may help relieve discomfort and promote healing of an anal fissure, as well as prevent recurrences. Changes include:
Adding fiber to your diet. Eating about 25 to 35 grams of fiber a day can help keep stools soft and improve fissure healing. Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables, nuts and whole grains. You also can take a fiber supplement. Adding fiber may cause gas and bloating, so increase your intake gradually.
Drinking adequate fluids. Fluids help prevent constipation.
Not straining during bowel movements. Straining creates pressure, which can open a healing tear or cause a new tear.
Sitting in a warm bath. Also called a sitz bath, soaking in warm water for 10 to 20 minutes several times a day can soothe the skin and promote relaxation. If possible, take a sitz bath after bowel movements.
If your infant has an anal fissure, change diapers frequently and wash the area gently. Also, be sure to discuss the problem with your child's health care provider.
Symptoms=Symptoms of an anal fissure include:
Pain during bowel movements.
Pain after bowel movements that can last up to several hours.
Bright red blood on the stool or toilet paper after a bowel movement.
A visible crack in the skin around the anus.
A small lump or skin tag on the skin near the anal fissure.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of developing an anal fissure include:
Constipation. Straining during bowel movements and passing hard stools increase the risk of tearing.
Childbirth. Anal fissures are more common in women after they give birth.
Crohn's disease. This inflammatory bowel disease causes chronic inflammation of the intestinal tract. This may make the lining of the anal canal more vulnerable to tearing.
Anal intercourse.
Age. Anal fissures can occur at any age, but are more common in infants and middle-aged adults.
Prevention
You may be able to prevent an anal fissure by taking measures to prevent constipation or diarrhea. Eat high-fiber foods, drink fluids, and exercise regularly to keep from having to strain during bowel movements.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anal fistula
Home Remedies
Your health care provider may suggest measures to make you more comfortable during healing:
Use pain medication, as needed
Soak in a warm sitz bath
Add fiber to your diet and drink plenty of liquid to prevent constipation
Avoid straining during bowel movements
Symptoms=Symptoms of an anal fistula can include:
An opening on the skin around the anus
A red, inflamed area around the tunnel opening
Oozing of pus, blood or stool from the tunnel opening
Pain in the rectum and anus, especially when sitting or passing stool
Fever
Request an appointment

Causes
Most anal fistulas are caused by an infection that starts in an anal gland. The infection results in an abscess that drains on its own or is drained surgically through the skin next to the anus. A fistula is the tunnel that forms under the skin along this drainage tract. The tunnel connects the anal gland or anal canal to a hole in the outside skin around the anus.
Rings of sphincter muscle at the opening of the anus allow you to control the release of stool. Fistulas are classified by their involvement of these sphincter muscles. This classification helps the surgeon determine treatment options.
Risk factors
Risk factors for an anal fistula include:
Previously drained anal abscess
Crohn's disease or other inflammatory bowel disease
Trauma to the anal area
Infections of the anal area
Surgery or radiation for treatment of anal cancer
Anal fistulas occur most often in adults around the age of 40 but may occur in younger people, especially if there is a history of Crohn's disease. Anal fistulas occur more often in males than in females.
Complications
Even with effective treatment of an anal fistula, recurrence of an abscess and an anal fistula is possible. Surgical treatment may result in the inability to hold in stool (fecal incontinence).
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Risk factors for an anal fistula include:
Previously drained anal abscess
Crohn's disease or other inflammatory bowel disease
Trauma to the anal area
Infections of the anal area
Surgery or radiation for treatment of anal cancer
Anal fistulas occur most often in adults around the age of 40 but may occur in younger people, especially if there is a history of Crohn's disease. Anal fistulas occur more often in males than in females.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anal itching
Home Remedies
Prevention of anal itching mainly involves a careful washing routine that keeps the area clean, cool and dry, while avoiding irritating the skin.
If you already have anal itching, try these self-care steps to ease your symptoms:
Cleanse gently. Clean the area around the anus when it's soiled or after each bowel movement when possible. This may involve a quick shower, a bidet, a sitz bath or a squeeze bottle. Moist toilet tissue can help. Avoid scrubbing or rough cloths. Pat dry with a cloth or dry the area with a hair dryer on fan-only setting. Using the heat setting could further irritate this delicate area.
Don't scratch. Scratching provides only short-term relief from itchy skin. It further irritates your skin. You may find some relief by applying a moist, room-temperature compress to the area or taking a lukewarm oatmeal bath. Trim your nails short and wear cotton gloves to bed to prevent scratching while you're sleeping.
Wear white cotton underwear that doesn't bind. This helps keep the area dry. Avoid wearing pantyhose and other tight-fitting garments because these can trap moisture.
Avoid irritants. Avoid bubble baths, genital deodorants, scented toilet paper, personal cleansing wipes, and harsh or perfumed soaps. Cleansing with a gentle soap and water and not using any other products is usually the best.
Change your diet. Cut back on or avoid the following items until your symptoms clear up: tea, coffee, cola, alcohol, citrus fruits, pepper, dairy products, spicy foods, tomato sauce and tomatoes. Avoid overuse of laxatives.
Apply ointments, creams or gels. Protect the affected skin from moisture by applying a thin layer of a zinc oxide ointment (Desitin, Balmex) or petroleum jelly (Vaseline). If needed to ease inflammation and itching, apply hydrocortisone 1% cream 2 to 3 times daily for a week or two.
Eat more vegetables, whole grains and noncitrus fruits. This will help with maintaining regular bowel movements. Other sources of fiber are beans, nuts and seeds. Fiber supplements such as psyllium (Metamucil) and methylcellulose (Citrucel) may help.
Symptoms=Symptoms of anal itching may include intense itching, inflammation, burning and soreness. The itching and irritation may be short lived or more persistent, depending on the cause. Anal itching often is worse at bedtime or in hot, humid weather.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Angina
Home Remedies
Heart disease is often the cause of angina. Making lifestyle changes to keep the heart healthy is an important part of angina treatment. Try these strategies:
Don't smoke. Quitting smoking is the most important thing you can do to improve heart health. Also, avoid being around secondhand smoke. If you need to quit, ask your care team for help.
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise helps improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity five or more days a week. If you've had a heart attack or heart surgery, you may have activity limits. Ask your healthcare professional what's best for you.
Manage weight. Too much weight strains the heart. Being overweight increases the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes. Ask your healthcare team what the best weight is for you.
Eat a healthy diet. Avoid or limit foods with saturated fat, trans fats, salt and sugar. Choose whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean protein, such as fish and beans.
Manage other health conditions. Ask your care team how often you need to have your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels checked.
Control stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress.
Avoid or limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with your care team about strategies that might help.
Symptoms=Heart attack
Enlarge image
Angina symptoms include chest pain and discomfort. The chest pain or discomfort may feel like:
Burning.
Fullness.
Pressure.
Squeezing.
Pain also may be felt in the arms, neck, jaw, shoulder or back.
Other symptoms of angina include:
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Nausea.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
The severity, duration and type of angina can vary. New or different symptoms may signal unstable angina or a heart attack.
Any new or worsening angina symptoms need to be checked immediately by a healthcare professional. The healthcare team can determine whether you have stable or unstable angina.
Angina in women
Symptoms of angina in women can be different from the classic angina symptoms. These differences may lead to delays in seeking treatment. For example, chest pain may not be the only symptom or the most common symptom. Other symptoms of angina in women may include:
Discomfort in the neck, jaw, teeth or back.
Nausea.
Shortness of breath.
Stabbing pain instead of chest pressure.
Stomach pain.
Risk Factors
The following things may increase the risk of angina:
Increasing age. Angina is most common in adults age 60 and older.
Family history of heart disease. Tell your healthcare team if your mother, father or any siblings have or had heart disease or a heart attack.
Tobacco use. Smoking, chewing tobacco and long-term exposure to secondhand smoke can damage the lining of the arteries. Artery damage can let deposits of cholesterol collect and block blood flow.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease can cause angina.
High blood pressure. Over time, high blood pressure damages arteries by speeding up the hardening of the arteries.
High cholesterol or triglycerides. Too much bad cholesterol, called low-density lipoprotein (LDL), in the blood can cause arteries to narrow. A high LDL level increases the risk of angina and heart attack. A high level of triglycerides in the blood also is unhealthy.
Other health conditions. Chronic kidney disease, peripheral artery disease, metabolic syndrome or a history of stroke increases the risk of angina.
Not enough exercise. An inactive lifestyle raises the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and obesity. Talk with your healthcare team about the type and amount of exercise that's best for you.
Obesity. Obesity is a risk factor for heart disease, which can cause angina. Being overweight makes the heart work harder to supply blood to the body.
Emotional stress. Too much stress and anger can raise blood pressure. Rushes of hormones made by the body during stress can narrow the arteries and worsen angina.
Medicines. Some medicines tighten blood vessels, which may trigger Prinzmetal angina. An example is certain migraine medicines.
Drug misuse. Cocaine and other stimulants can cause blood vessel spasms and trigger angina.
Cold temperatures. Exposure to cold temperatures can trigger Prinzmetal angina.
Prevention
You can help prevent angina by following the same lifestyle changes that are used to treat angina:
Avoid or limit alcohol.
Don't smoke.
Eat a healthy diet.
Exercise regularly.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage other health conditions related to heart disease.
Reduce stress.
Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep a day.
Also get recommended vaccines to avoid heart complications.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anorexia nervosa
Home Remedies
When you have anorexia nervosa, it can be hard to take care of yourself properly. In addition to professional treatment, follow these steps:
Stay with your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions and try not to stray from meal plans, even if they make you uncomfortable.
Talk to your healthcare professional about proper vitamin and mineral supplements. Many people get their vitamins and minerals from food. But if you're not eating well, your body probably isn't getting all the nutrients it needs, such as vitamin D or iron.
Don't isolate yourself from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Understand that they have your best interests at heart.
Resist urges to weigh yourself outside of medical appointments or check yourself in the mirror frequently. These actions may do nothing but fuel your drive to keep unhealthy habits.
Symptoms=The physical and behavioral symptoms of anorexia nervosa relate to how starvation affects the brain. It may be hard to notice symptoms because what is seen as a low body weight differs for each person. Some people with anorexia may not look very thin. Also, people often hide their thinness, eating habits or physical problems.
Physical symptoms
Physical symptoms of anorexia nervosa may include irregular heart rhythms, low blood pressure and dehydration. Dehydration happens when your body doesn't have enough water and other fluids to carry out normal functions. Your fingers may look blue and you may have dry skin. You may notice a change in your skin color, such as yellowing of the skin. You may have hair that thins, breaks or falls out. You also may have soft, downy hair covering your body.
Other physical symptoms include:
Extreme weight loss or not making expected weight gains based on age.
Being very tired and weak.
Dizziness or fainting.
Having a hard time passing stool and having stomach pain.
Not able to stand the cold, or feeling cold when others feel fine.
Swelling of the arms or legs.
Wearing away of the teeth and calluses on your knuckles from causing yourself to vomit.
Stomachaches.
Never feeling hungry or feeling hungry and getting full right away after eating a very small portion.
Having a hard time concentrating or focusing.
Low mood.
Increased anxiety.
Stress fractures or reduced bone mass.
If you're female and not taking a contraceptive, you may not have menstrual periods.
Emotional and behavioral symptoms
You may have an extreme focus on food. Sometimes this includes cooking meals for others but not eating those meals. You may skip meals or refuse to eat. You also may severely limit the amount of food you eat through dieting or fasting, not admit to being hungry, or make excuses for not eating.
When you eat, you may eat only a few certain "safe" foods — often foods low in fat and calories. You also may focus too much on eating "clean" or healthy and stop eating specific types of food in a way that has not been recommended by a healthcare professional. You may take on rigid meal or eating habits, such as spitting out food after chewing. You may not want to eat in public. You also may lie about how much food you've eaten.
You may have a type of anorexia where you binge and purge like with bulimia. Binges are when you feel like you can't control what or how much you eat. Binges can sometimes be large amounts of food. But overall, if you have the binge-purge type of anorexia, you eat much less than you need. Purges are when you make yourself vomit, or you misuse enemas, laxatives, diuretics, diet aids or herbal products to get rid of food that you ate. You lose too much weight and have very low body weight, compared with your personal weight history.
Other emotional and behavioral symptoms of anorexia may include:
Too much exercise. This includes exercising when you're injured, instead of doing something you value or enjoy, or exercising to such a degree of intensity that it's notably different from the people around you.
Fear of weight gain. Being scared to gain weight may include the need to weigh or measure your body over and over again.
Focus on appearance. This includes checking in the mirror often for what you think are flaws and wearing layers of clothing to cover up.
Concern about being overweight. This includes concerns about being fat or having parts of the body that are fat.
Emotional changes. You may lack emotion or feel emotionally flat. You may not want to be social. You also could be angry or irritable. You may have little interest in sex.
Trouble sleeping. This also is known as insomnia.
You also may hurt yourself. Or you may think or talk about suicide or attempt suicide.
Risk Factors
Anorexia nervosa affects all gender identities, races, ages, incomes and body types.
Anorexia also is more common among teenagers, although people of any age can develop this eating disorder. Teens may be more at risk because of all the changes their bodies go through during puberty. They also may face more peer pressure and be more sensitive to criticism or even casual comments about weight or body shape.
Certain factors raise the risk of anorexia and other eating disorders, including:
Family history. If you have a first-degree relative — a parent, sibling or child — who had anorexia, you have a higher risk of developing it.
A history of weight bullying. People who have been teased or bullied about their weight are more likely to develop eating disorders. This includes people with peers, family members, coaches and others who have shamed them for their weight.
A history of dieting. Dieting behaviors raise the risk of an eating disorder. People who are always dieting and whose weight is always going up and down as they get on and off new diets could develop an eating disorder.
Transitions. Major changes can bring emotional stress and raise the risk of anorexia. Such changes include a new school, home or job, as well as a relationship breakup or the death or illness of a loved one.
Prevention
There's no guaranteed way to prevent anorexia nervosa. Primary healthcare professionals, including pediatricians, family medicine professionals and internal medicine professionals, may be in a good position to see early signs that could lead to anorexia. For instance, they can ask questions about eating habits and satisfaction with appearance during routine medical appointments. This could open a discussion about how this relates to health and where to get help if needed.
If you notice that people have dieting habits that seem too rigid, or they're unhappy with their appearance, think about talking to them about these issues. Although you may not be able to prevent an eating disorder from starting, you can talk about your concerns and offer to assist them in finding help if needed.
Examples of organizations that offer support for caregivers, friends and family members of people with eating disorders include the National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) and Families Empowered and Supporting Treatment for Eating Disorders (F.E.A.S.T.).
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele)
Home Remedies
Kegel exercises are exercises you can do at home to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles. A strengthened pelvic floor provides better support for your pelvic organs and relief from symptoms associated with anterior prolapse.
To perform Kegel exercises, follow these steps:
Tighten (contract) your pelvic floor muscles — the muscles you use to stop urinating.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, and then relax for five seconds. (If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.)
Work up to holding the contraction for 10 seconds at a time.
Do three sets of 10 repetitions of the exercises each day.
Ask your doctor for instructions on how to properly perform a Kegel, and for feedback on whether you're using the right muscles. Once you've learned the proper method, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether you're sitting at your desk or relaxing on the couch.
To help keep an anterior prolapse from progressing, you can also try these lifestyle modifications:
Treat and prevent constipation. High-fiber foods can help.
Avoid heavy lifting, and lift correctly. When lifting, use your legs instead of your waist or back.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis, and don't smoke.
Manage your weight. Talk to your doctor to determine your ideal weight and get advice on weight-loss strategies, if you need them.
Symptoms=In mild cases of anterior prolapse, you may not notice any signs or symptoms. When signs and symptoms occur, they may include:
A feeling of fullness or pressure in your pelvis and vagina
In some cases, a bulge of tissue in your vagina that you can see or feel
Increased pelvic pressure when you strain, cough, bear down or lift
Problems urinating, including difficulty starting a urine stream, the feeling that you haven't completely emptied your bladder after urinating, feeling a frequent need to urinate or leaking urine (urinary incontinence)
Signs and symptoms often are especially noticeable after standing for long periods of time and may go away when you lie down.
Risk Factors
These factors may increase your risk of anterior prolapse:
Pregnancy and childbirth. Women who have had a vaginal or instrument-assisted delivery, multiple pregnancies, or whose infants had a high birth weight have a higher risk of anterior prolapse.
Aging. Your risk of anterior prolapse increases as you age. This is especially true after menopause, when your body's production of estrogen — which helps keep the pelvic floor strong — decreases.
Hysterectomy. Having your uterus removed may contribute to weakness in your pelvic floor, but this is not always the case.
Genetics. Some women are born with weaker connective tissues, making them more susceptible to anterior prolapse.
Obesity. Women who are overweight or obese are at higher risk of anterior prolapse.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Anxiety disorders
Home Remedies
While most people with anxiety disorders need psychotherapy or medications to get anxiety under control, lifestyle changes also can make a difference. Here's what you can do:
Keep physically active. Develop a routine so that you're physically active most days of the week. Exercise is a powerful stress reducer. It may improve your mood and help you stay healthy. Start out slowly and gradually increase the amount and intensity of your activities.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. These substances can cause or worsen anxiety. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Quit smoking and cut back or quit drinking caffeinated beverages. Both nicotine and caffeine can worsen anxiety.
Use stress management and relaxation techniques. Visualization techniques, meditation and yoga are examples of relaxation techniques that can ease anxiety.
Make sleep a priority. Do what you can to make sure you're getting enough sleep to feel rested. If you aren't sleeping well, see your doctor.
Eat healthy. Healthy eating — such as focusing on vegetables, fruits, whole grains and fish — may be linked to reduced anxiety, but more research is needed.
Symptoms=Common anxiety signs and symptoms include:
Feeling nervous, restless or tense
Having a sense of impending danger, panic or doom
Having an increased heart rate
Breathing rapidly (hyperventilation)
Sweating
Trembling
Feeling weak or tired
Trouble concentrating or thinking about anything other than the present worry
Having trouble sleeping
Experiencing gastrointestinal (GI) problems
Having difficulty controlling worry
Having the urge to avoid things that trigger anxiety
Several types of anxiety disorders exist:
Agoraphobia (ag-uh-ruh-FOE-be-uh) is a type of anxiety disorder in which you fear and often avoid places or situations that might cause you to panic and make you feel trapped, helpless or embarrassed.
Anxiety disorder due to a medical condition includes symptoms of intense anxiety or panic that are directly caused by a physical health problem.
Generalized anxiety disorder includes persistent and excessive anxiety and worry about activities or events — even ordinary, routine issues. The worry is out of proportion to the actual circumstance, is difficult to control and affects how you feel physically. It often occurs along with other anxiety disorders or depression.
Panic disorder involves repeated episodes of sudden feelings of intense anxiety and fear or terror that reach a peak within minutes (panic attacks). You may have feelings of impending doom, shortness of breath, chest pain, or a rapid, fluttering or pounding heart (heart palpitations). These panic attacks may lead to worrying about them happening again or avoiding situations in which they've occurred.
Selective mutism is a consistent failure of children to speak in certain situations, such as school, even when they can speak in other situations, such as at home with close family members. This can interfere with school, work and social functioning.
Separation anxiety disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by anxiety that's excessive for the child's developmental level and related to separation from parents or others who have parental roles.
Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) involves high levels of anxiety, fear and avoidance of social situations due to feelings of embarrassment, self-consciousness and concern about being judged or viewed negatively by others.
Specific phobias are characterized by major anxiety when you're exposed to a specific object or situation and a desire to avoid it. Phobias provoke panic attacks in some people.
Substance-induced anxiety disorder is characterized by symptoms of intense anxiety or panic that are a direct result of misusing drugs, taking medications, being exposed to a toxic substance or withdrawal from drugs.
Other specified anxiety disorder and unspecified anxiety disorder are terms for anxiety or phobias that don't meet the exact criteria for any other anxiety disorders but are significant enough to be distressing and disruptive.
Risk Factors
These factors may increase your risk of developing an anxiety disorder:
Trauma. Children who endured abuse or trauma or witnessed traumatic events are at higher risk of developing an anxiety disorder at some point in life. Adults who experience a traumatic event also can develop anxiety disorders.
Stress due to an illness. Having a health condition or serious illness can cause significant worry about issues such as your treatment and your future.
Stress buildup. A big event or a buildup of smaller stressful life situations may trigger excessive anxiety — for example, a death in the family, work stress or ongoing worry about finances.
Personality. People with certain personality types are more prone to anxiety disorders than others are.
Other mental health disorders. People with other mental health disorders, such as depression, often also have an anxiety disorder.
Having blood relatives with an anxiety disorder. Anxiety disorders can run in families.
Drugs or alcohol. Drug or alcohol use or misuse or withdrawal can cause or worsen anxiety.
Prevention
There's no way to predict for certain what will cause someone to develop an anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you're anxious:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Stay active. Participate in activities that you enjoy and that make you feel good about yourself. Enjoy social interaction and caring relationships, which can lessen your worries.
Avoid alcohol or drug use. Alcohol and drug use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Aortic valve disease
Home Remedies
After diagnosis or treatment of aortic valve disease, you'll need regular health checkups. Your health care team may suggest making heart-healthy lifestyle changes. Try these steps:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fats and excess salt and sugar.
Maintain a healthy weight. Ask your health care team what a healthy weight is for you.
Get regular exercise. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day. Check with your health care team before starting a new exercise routine.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to tame stress.
Do not smoke. If you need help quitting smoking or using tobacco, ask a health care professional about resources to help. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Pregnancy
If you have aortic valve disease, it's important to talk with a health care professional before becoming pregnant. Careful and regular checkups are needed if you have aortic valve disease during pregnancy. Your health care team can discuss with you which medicines are safe to use during pregnancy. Your health care team also can determine whether valve disease treatment is needed prior to pregnancy.
Health care professionals may recommend that people with severe heart valve disease avoid pregnancy to avoid the risk of complications.
Symptoms=Some people with aortic valve disease may not notice symptoms for many years. Symptoms of aortic valve disease may include:
Chest pain or tightness.
Dizziness.
Fainting.
Fatigue after activity or having less ability to be active.
Irregular heartbeat.
Shortness of breath, particularly during vigorous activity or when lying down.
Not eating enough. This is mainly seen in children with aortic valve stenosis.
Not gaining enough weight. This is mainly seen in children with aortic valve stenosis.
Risk Factors
Many things can raise the risk of aortic valve disease, including:
Older age. Calcium can build up on the aortic valve as people age, causing the aortic valve to stiffen and become narrow.
Heart valve problems present at birth, called congenital heart defects. Some people are born with a missing, extra or fused valve flap. This increases the risk of aortic valve regurgitation.
Rheumatic fever. This complication of strep throat can cause aortic stenosis, a type of heart valve disease. If you have heart valve disease due to rheumatic fever, it's called rheumatic heart disease. If not, it's called nonrheumatic heart disease.
Inflammation of the lining of the heart's chambers and valves, called endocarditis. This life-threatening condition is usually caused by infection. It can damage the aortic valve.
History of radiation therapy to the chest. Some types of cancer are treated with radiation therapy. Symptoms of heart valve disease may not be noticed until many years after radiation therapy is received.
Other health conditions. Chronic kidney disease, lupus and Marfan syndrome, a connective tissue disease, can increase the risk of aortic stenosis or regurgitation.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Aortic valve regurgitation
Home Remedies
While lifestyle changes can't prevent or treat your condition, your health care team might suggest that you practice some heart-healthy habits. These may include:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Enjoy a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Stay away from saturated and trans fats and excess salt and sugar.
Stay at a healthy weight. Aim to keep a healthy weight. If you're overweight or obese, your health care team may recommend that you lose weight. Ask what goal weight is healthy for you.
Get regular exercise. Aim to include about 30 minutes of physical activity, such as brisk walks, into your daily fitness routine. Ask your care team for advice before you start to exercise, especially if you're thinking about playing competitive sports.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask your care team about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Control high blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure increases the risk of serious health problems. Get your blood pressure checked at least every two years if you're 18 or older. If you have risk factors for heart disease or are over age 40, you may need more-frequent checks.
Get a cholesterol test. Get your first cholesterol test when you're in your 20s and then another at least every 4 to 6 years. Some people may need to start testing earlier or have more-frequent checks.
Manage diabetes. If you have diabetes, tight blood sugar control can help keep your heart healthy.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with your health care team about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy and aortic valve regurgitation
Careful and regular checkups are needed for those who have heart valve disease, including aortic valve regurgitation, during pregnancy. If you have a severe heart valve condition, you might be told not to get pregnant to reduce the risk of complications.
Symptoms=Most often, aortic valve regurgitation develops over time. You may have no symptoms for years. You might not realize that you have the condition. But sometimes, aortic valve regurgitation occurs suddenly. Usually, this is due to an infection of the valve.
As aortic valve regurgitation becomes worse, symptoms may include:
Shortness of breath with exercise or when lying down.
Tiredness and weakness, especially when being more active than usual.
Irregular heartbeat.
Lightheadedness or fainting.
Pain, discomfort or tightness in the chest, which often gets worse during exercise.
Sensations of a rapid, fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Swollen ankles and feet.
Risk Factors
Things that raise the risk of aortic valve regurgitation include:
Older age.
Heart problems present at birth, also called congenital heart defects.
History of infections that can affect the heart.
Certain conditions passed down through families that can affect the heart, such as Marfan syndrome.
Other types of heart valve disease, such as aortic valve stenosis.
High blood pressure.
The condition also can happen without any known risk factors.
Prevention
If you have any type of heart disease, get regular health checkups.
If you have a parent, child or sibling with a bicuspid aortic valve, you should have an imaging test called an echocardiogram. This can check for aortic valve regurgitation. Early diagnosis of heart valve disease, such as aortic valve regurgitation, is important. Doing so may make the condition easier to treat.
Also, take steps to prevent conditions that can raise the risk of aortic valve regurgitation. For example:
Get a health checkup if you have a severe sore throat. Untreated strep throat can lead to rheumatic fever. Strep throat is treated with medicines that fight bacteria, called antibiotics.
Check your blood pressure regularly. Have your blood pressure checked at least every two years starting at age 18. Some people need more-frequent checks.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2017/01/18/16/30/mcdc-7_aortic-valve-regurgitation-8col.jpg
Condition
Aortic valve stenosis
Home Remedies
Try these tips to help prevent or slow aortic valve stenosis and other types of heart disease.
Do not smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats.
Keep a healthy weight. Lose weight if you are overweight or have obesity. Losing just a few pounds can help reduce risk factors for heart disease. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Get regular exercise. Exercise helps manage weight and control risk factors for heart disease. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Manage stress. Learn ways to help reduce emotional stress. Some ideas are to get more exercise, practice mindfulness or connect with others in support groups.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
If you have aortic valve stenosis, your healthcare team may recommend that you limit strenuous activity to avoid overworking your heart.
Pregnancy and aortic valve disease
If you have aortic stenosis and are considering pregnancy, it's important to talk with your healthcare team about your plans. Together, you can talk about the safety of medicines and whether you need treatment for aortic valve stenosis before getting pregnant.
Those with heart valve disease such as aortic valve stenosis usually require close checkups by a healthcare professional during pregnancy. If you have severe aortic stenosis, healthcare professionals may tell you not to get pregnant due to the risk of complications.
Symptoms=Aortic valve stenosis ranges from mild to severe. Symptoms generally happen when the valve is very narrowed. Some people with aortic valve stenosis may not have symptoms for many years.
Symptoms of aortic valve stenosis may include:
Chest pain or tightness with activity.
Feeling faint or dizzy or fainting with activity.
Shortness of breath, especially with activity.
Fatigue, especially during times of increased activity.
Rapid, fluttering heartbeat.
Children with aortic valve stenosis may have other symptoms such as:
Not eating enough.
Not gaining enough weight.
Aortic valve stenosis may lead to heart failure. Heart failure symptoms include extreme tiredness, shortness of breath, and swollen ankles and feet.
Risk Factors
Risk factors of aortic valve stenosis include:
Older age.
Some heart conditions present at birth, called congenital heart defects. An example is a bicuspid aortic valve.
Long-term kidney disease.
Heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
Infections that can affect the heart, such as rheumatic fever and infective endocarditis.
Radiation therapy to the chest.
Prevention
Some possible ways to prevent aortic valve stenosis are:
Get a health checkup when you have a sore throat. Strep throat that is not treated can lead to rheumatic fever, which can damage heart valves. Strep throat can usually be easily treated with antibiotics. Rheumatic fever is more common in children and young adults.
Keep the heart healthy. Talk about your risk factors for heart disease with your healthcare team. Ask how to prevent and manage them. Risk factors such as high blood pressure, obesity and high cholesterol may be linked to aortic valve stenosis.
Take care of the teeth and gums. There may be a link between infected gums, called gingivitis, and a heart infection known as endocarditis. Endocarditis is a risk factor for aortic valve stenosis.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2014/09/08/15/22/r7_aorticstenosis.jpg
Condition
Appendicitis
Home Remedies
Expect a few weeks of recovery from an appendectomy — or longer if your appendix burst. To help your body heal:
Limit your activity. If your appendectomy was done laparoscopically, limit your activity for 3 to 5 days. If you had an open appendectomy, limit your activity for 10 to 14 days. Always ask your healthcare team about limits on your activity and when you can resume your typical activities after surgery.
Support your abdomen when you cough. To help reduce pain, place a pillow over your belly and apply pressure before you cough, laugh or move.
Contact your healthcare team if your pain medicines aren't helping. Being in pain puts extra stress on your body and slows the healing process. If you're still in pain despite taking your pain medicines, call a member of your healthcare team.
Get up and move when you're ready. Start slowly and increase your activity as you feel able. Begin with short walks.
Sleep when tired. As your body heals, you may find that you feel more tired than usual. Take it easy and rest when you need to.
Discuss returning to work or school with your healthcare team. You can return to work when you feel ready. Children may be able to return to school less than a week after surgery. They should wait 2 to 4 weeks to return to certain activities, such as gym classes or sports.
Symptoms=Symptoms of appendicitis may include:
Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower belly.
Sudden pain that begins around the belly button and often shifts to the lower right belly.
Pain that worsens with coughing, walking or making other jarring movements.
Nausea and vomiting.
Loss of appetite.
Low-grade fever that may rise as the illness worsens.
Constipation or diarrhea.
Belly bloating.
Gas.
The site of the pain may vary, depending on age and the position of the appendix. In pregnancy, the pain may seem to come from the upper belly because the appendix is higher during pregnancy.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for appendicitis include:
Age. Anyone can develop appendicitis, but it most often happens in people between the ages of 10 and 30.
Your sex. Men have a slightly higher risk of appendicitis than do women.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
ARDS
Home Remedies
If you're recovering from ARDS, these suggestions can help protect your lungs:
Quit smoking. If you smoke, seek help to quit. Also, stay away from secondhand smoke whenever you can.
Get vaccinated. Getting the flu, also called influenza, shot every year, as well as the pneumonia vaccine as often as recommended, can lower your risk of lung infections.
Attend pulmonary rehabilitation. Many medical centers now offer pulmonary rehabilitation programs that include exercise training, education and counseling to help you learn how to get back to your usual activities and get to your ideal weight.
Symptoms=The seriousness of ARDS symptoms can vary depending on what's causing them and whether there is underlying heart or lung disease. Symptoms include:
Severe shortness of breath.
Labored and rapid breathing that is not usual.
Cough.
Chest discomfort.
Fast heart rate.
Confusion and extreme tiredness.
Risk Factors
Most people who get ARDS already are in a hospital for another condition. Many are critically ill. People are especially at risk if they have an infection, such as sepsis or pneumonia. They're also at higher risk if they have COVID-19, especially if they also have metabolic syndrome.
People who have alcohol use disorder or who use recreational drugs or smoke ― lifestyle habits that can harm the lungs ― are at higher risk of getting ARDS. Having a history of alcohol, drug or tobacco use also raises the risk of ARDS.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy. They also can prevent or slow atherosclerosis. The American Heart Association recommends these eight heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke, vape or use tobacco. Also stay away from cigarette smoke. Smoking damages the arteries. Smoking is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. Nicotine tightens blood vessels and forces the heart to work harder. Not smoking is one of the best ways to lower the risk of atherosclerosis complications, such as a heart attack.
Get regular exercise. Staying active keeps the body healthy. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Keep a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of coronary artery disease, which is caused by atherosclerosis. Losing even a small amount of weight can help reduce the risk. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Eat healthy foods. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats. Read nutrition labels to check the amount of salt and fat.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce stress. Some ideas are to get more exercise, practice mindfulness and connect with others in support groups. Or try yoga or deep breathing. These relaxation practices can temporarily lower blood pressure, reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Symptoms=Mild atherosclerosis usually doesn't cause symptoms.
Atherosclerosis symptoms usually don't happen until an artery is so narrowed or clogged that it can't send enough blood to organs and tissues. Sometimes a blood clot completely blocks blood flow. The clot may break apart. If this happens, it may cause a heart attack or stroke.
Symptoms of moderate to severe atherosclerosis depend on which arteries are affected. For example, if you have atherosclerosis:
In your heart arteries, you may have chest pain or pressure, called angina.
In the arteries leading to your brain, you may have sudden numbness or weakness in your arms or legs, trouble speaking, slurred speech, sudden or temporary loss of vision in one eye, or drooping muscles in your face. These are symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA). Untreated, a TIA can lead to a stroke.
In the arteries in your arms and legs, you may have leg pain when walking, called claudication. This is a symptom of peripheral artery disease (PAD). You also might have lower blood pressure in the affected arm or leg.
In the arteries leading to your kidneys, you may get high blood pressure or kidney failure.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for atherosclerosis that you can't control include:
Aging.
A family history of early heart disease or stroke.
Changes in genes that make atherosclerosis more likely.
Having inflammatory conditions such as lupus, inflammatory bowel disease or psoriasis.
Risk factors for atherosclerosis that you may be able to control include:
An unhealthy diet.
Diabetes.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Lack of exercise.
Obesity.
Sleep apnea.
Smoking and other tobacco use.
Prevention
The same healthy lifestyle changes recommended to treat atherosclerosis also help prevent it. These lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy:
Do not smoke or use tobacco.
Eat nutritious foods.
Get regular exercise and keep an active lifestyle.
Keep a healthy weight.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Arthritis
Home Remedies
In many cases, arthritis symptoms can be reduced with the following measures:
Weight loss. Excess weight puts extra stress on weight-bearing joints. Losing weight may increase your mobility and limit future joint injury.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help keep joints flexible. Swimming and water aerobics may be good choices because the buoyancy of the water reduces stress on weight-bearing joints.
Heat and cold. Heating pads or ice packs may help relieve arthritis pain.
Assistive devices. Using canes, shoe inserts, walkers, raised toilet seats, and other assistive devices can help protect joints and improve your ability to perform daily tasks.
More Information
Arthritis pain: Do's and don'ts
Exercising with arthritis
Joint protection
Symptoms=The most common signs and symptoms of arthritis involve the joints. Depending on the type of arthritis, signs and symptoms may include:
Pain
Stiffness
Swelling
Redness
Decreased range of motion
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The two main types of arthritis — osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis — damage joints in different ways.
Osteoarthritis
The most common type of arthritis, osteoarthritis involves wear-and-tear damage to a joint's cartilage — the hard, slick coating on the ends of bones where they form a joint. Cartilage cushions the ends of the bones and allows nearly frictionless joint motion, but enough damage can result in bone grinding directly on bone, which causes pain and restricted movement. This wear and tear can occur over many years, or it can be hastened by a joint injury or infection.
Osteoarthritis also causes changes in the bones and deterioration of the connective tissues that attach muscle to bone and hold the joint together. If cartilage in a joint is severely damaged, the joint lining may become inflamed and swollen.
Rheumatoid arthritis
In rheumatoid arthritis, the body's immune system attacks the lining of the joint capsule, a tough membrane that encloses all the joint parts. This lining (synovial membrane) becomes inflamed and swollen. The disease process can eventually destroy cartilage and bone within the joint.
Risk factors
Risk factors for arthritis include:
Family history. Some types of arthritis run in families, so you may be more likely to develop arthritis if your parents or siblings have the disorder.
Age. The risk of many types of arthritis — including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and gout — increases with age.
Your sex. Women are more likely than men to develop rheumatoid arthritis, while most of the people who have gout, another type of arthritis, are men.
Previous joint injury. People who have injured a joint, perhaps while playing a sport, are more likely to eventually develop arthritis in that joint.
Obesity. Carrying excess pounds puts stress on joints, particularly your knees, hips and spine. People with obesity have a higher risk of developing arthritis.
Complications
Severe arthritis, particularly if it affects your hands or arms, can make it difficult for you to do daily tasks. Arthritis of weight-bearing joints can keep you from walking comfortably or sitting up straight. In some cases, joints may gradually lose their alignment and shape.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Risk factors for arthritis include:
Family history. Some types of arthritis run in families, so you may be more likely to develop arthritis if your parents or siblings have the disorder.
Age. The risk of many types of arthritis — including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and gout — increases with age.
Your sex. Women are more likely than men to develop rheumatoid arthritis, while most of the people who have gout, another type of arthritis, are men.
Previous joint injury. People who have injured a joint, perhaps while playing a sport, are more likely to eventually develop arthritis in that joint.
Obesity. Carrying excess pounds puts stress on joints, particularly your knees, hips and spine. People with obesity have a higher risk of developing arthritis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Asthma
Home Remedies
Although many people with asthma rely on medications to prevent and relieve symptoms, you can do several things on your own to maintain your health and lessen the possibility of asthma attacks.
Avoid your triggers
Taking steps to reduce your exposure to asthma triggers is a key part of asthma control. To reduce your exposure, you should:
Use your air conditioner. Air conditioning reduces the amount of airborne pollen from trees, grasses and weeds that finds its way indoors. Air conditioning also lowers indoor humidity and can reduce your exposure to dust mites. If you don't have air conditioning, try to keep your windows closed during pollen season.
Decontaminate your decor. Minimize dust that may worsen nighttime symptoms by replacing certain items in your bedroom. For example, encase pillows, mattresses and box springs in dustproof covers. Avoid using down-filled pillows and blankets. Throughout the house, remove carpeting and install hardwood or linoleum flooring. Use washable curtains and blinds.
Maintain optimal humidity. If you live in a damp climate, talk to your doctor about using a dehumidifier.
Prevent mold spores. Clean damp areas in the bathroom, kitchen and around the house to keep mold spores from developing. Get rid of moldy leaves or damp firewood in the yard.
Reduce pet dander. If you're allergic to dander, avoid pets with fur or feathers. Having pets regularly bathed or groomed may also reduce the amount of dander in your surroundings.
Clean regularly. Clean your home at least once a week. If you're likely to stir up dust, wear a mask or have someone else do the cleaning. Wash your bedding regularly.
Cover your nose and mouth if it's cold out. If your asthma is worsened by cold or dry air, wearing a face mask can help.
Stay healthy
Taking care of yourself can help keep your symptoms under control, including:
Get regular exercise. Having asthma doesn't mean you have to be less active. Treatment can prevent asthma attacks and control symptoms during activity.
Regular exercise can strengthen your heart and lungs, which helps relieve asthma symptoms. If you exercise in cold temperatures, wear a face mask to warm the air you breathe.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight can worsen asthma symptoms, and it puts you at higher risk of other health problems.
Control heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). It's possible that the acid reflux that causes heartburn may damage lung airways and worsen asthma symptoms. If you have frequent or constant heartburn, talk to your doctor about treatment options. You may need treatment for GERD before your asthma symptoms improve.
More Information
Asthma care at Mayo Clinic
Asthma diet
Ozone air purifiers
Show more related information
Symptoms=Asthma symptoms vary from person to person. You may have infrequent asthma attacks, have symptoms only at certain times — such as when exercising — or have symptoms all the time.
Asthma signs and symptoms include:
Shortness of breath
Chest tightness or pain
Wheezing when exhaling, which is a common sign of asthma in children
Trouble sleeping caused by shortness of breath, coughing or wheezing
Coughing or wheezing attacks that are worsened by a respiratory virus, such as a cold or the flu
Signs that your asthma is probably worsening include:
Asthma signs and symptoms that are more frequent and bothersome
Increasing difficulty breathing, as measured with a device used to check how well your lungs are working (peak flow meter)
The need to use a quick-relief inhaler more often
For some people, asthma signs and symptoms flare up in certain situations:
Exercise-induced asthma, which may be worse when the air is cold and dry
Occupational asthma, triggered by workplace irritants such as chemical fumes, gases or dust
Allergy-induced asthma, triggered by airborne substances, such as pollen, mold spores, cockroach waste, or particles of skin and dried saliva shed by pets (pet dander)
Risk Factors
A number of factors are thought to increase your chances of developing asthma. They include:
Having a blood relative with asthma, such as a parent or sibling
Having another allergic condition, such as atopic dermatitis — which causes red, itchy skin — or hay fever — which causes a runny nose, congestion and itchy eyes
Being overweight
Being a smoker
Exposure to secondhand smoke
Exposure to exhaust fumes or other types of pollution
Exposure to occupational triggers, such as chemicals used in farming, hairdressing and manufacturing
Prevention
While there's no way to prevent asthma, you and your doctor can design a step-by-step plan for living with your condition and preventing asthma attacks.
Follow your asthma action plan. With your doctor and health care team, write a detailed plan for taking medications and managing an asthma attack. Then be sure to follow your plan.
Asthma is an ongoing condition that needs regular monitoring and treatment. Taking control of your treatment can make you feel more in control of your life.
Get vaccinated for influenza and pneumonia. Staying current with vaccinations can prevent flu and pneumonia from triggering asthma flare-ups.
Identify and avoid asthma triggers. A number of outdoor allergens and irritants — ranging from pollen and mold to cold air and air pollution — can trigger asthma attacks. Find out what causes or worsens your asthma, and take steps to avoid those triggers.
Monitor your breathing. You may learn to recognize warning signs of an impending attack, such as slight coughing, wheezing or shortness of breath.
But because your lung function may decrease before you notice any signs or symptoms, regularly measure and record your peak airflow with a home peak flow meter. A peak flow meter measures how hard you can breathe out. Your doctor can show you how to monitor your peak flow at home.
Identify and treat attacks early. If you act quickly, you're less likely to have a severe attack. You also won't need as much medication to control your symptoms.
When your peak flow measurements decrease and alert you to an oncoming attack, take your medication as instructed. Also, immediately stop any activity that may have triggered the attack. If your symptoms don't improve, get medical help as directed in your action plan.
Take your medication as prescribed. Don't change your medications without first talking to your doctor, even if your asthma seems to be improving. It's a good idea to bring your medications with you to each doctor visit. Your doctor can make sure you're using your medications correctly and taking the right dose.
Pay attention to increasing quick-relief inhaler use. If you find yourself relying on your quick-relief inhaler, such as albuterol, your asthma isn't under control. See your doctor about adjusting your treatment.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Athlete's foot
Home Remedies
These tips can help you ease the symptoms of athlete's foot or avoid a recurrence:
Keep your feet clean and dry. Wash your feet twice a day and gently towel-dry between the toes.
Use an antifungal product. After washing and drying your feet, apply an antifungal product. The antifungal terbinafine (Lamisil AT) has been shown to be very effective. Another option is clotrimazole (Lotrimin AF). You may need to experiment to find the product and formulation — ointment, gel, cream, lotion, powder or spray — that work for you. Apply the product to the affected skin as directed — usually twice a day until a week after the rash clears up. It might take 2 to 4 weeks to see results. If the condition comes back, you might need to start applying the product again.
Change socks regularly. Change your socks at least once a day — more often if your feet get really sweaty.
Wear light, well-ventilated footwear. Avoid shoes made of synthetic material, such as vinyl or rubber. Wear sandals when possible to let your feet air out.
Alternate pairs of shoes. Use different shoes from day to day. This gives your shoes time to dry after each use.
Protect your feet in public places. Wear waterproof sandals or shoes around public pools, showers and lockers rooms.
Try not to scratch the rash. You can try soothing your itchy feet by soaking them in cool water.
Don't share shoes. Sharing risks spreading a fungal infection.
Symptoms=Athlete's foot
Enlarge image
Athlete's foot can affect one or both feet. Common signs and symptoms are:
Scaly, peeling or cracked skin between the toes
Itchiness, especially right after taking off shoes and socks
Inflamed skin that might appear reddish, purplish or grayish, depending on your skin color
Burning or stinging
Blisters
Dry, scaly skin on the bottom of the foot that extends up the side
Risk Factors
You are at higher risk of athlete's foot if you:
Frequently wear enclosed footwear
Sweat heavily
Share mats, rugs, bed linens, clothes or shoes with someone who has a fungal infection
Walk barefoot in public areas where the infection can spread, such as locker rooms, saunas, swimming pools, communal baths and showers
Prevention
These tips can help you avoid athlete's foot or avoid spreading it to others:
Let your feet air out. When you can, wear sandals to let your feet air out as much as possible.
Wash your feet daily. Use warm, soapy water and rinse and dry your feet thoroughly, especially between the toes. Apply a medicated foot powder (Tinactin, Gold Bond, others) or other medicated powder (Lotrimin AF, Zeasorb, others) if you're prone to athlete's foot.
Change socks regularly. Change your socks at least once a day — more often if your feet get really sweaty. Moisture-wicking socks, such as those made from cotton, help keep your feet drier than do nylon socks.
Alternate pairs of shoes. Use different shoes from day to day. This gives your shoes time to dry after each use.
Protect your feet in public places. Wear waterproof sandals or shoes around public pools, showers and lockers rooms.
Be aware of the risk factors for spreading the condition. If you live with others, don't share shoes or unwashed bedding and towels.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Atopic dermatitis (eczema)
Home Remedies
Taking care of sensitive skin is the first step in treating atopic dermatitis and preventing flares. To help reduce itching and soothe inflamed skin, try these self-care measures:
Moisturize your skin at least twice a day. Find a product or combination of products that works for you. You might try bath oils, creams, lotions, shea butter, ointments or sprays. For a child, the twice-a-day regimen might be an ointment before bedtime and a cream before school. Ointments are greasier and may sting less when applied. Choose products that are free of dyes, alcohols, fragrances and other ingredients that might irritate the skin. Allow the moisturizer to absorb into the skin before getting dressed.
Apply an anti-itch cream to the affected area. A nonprescription cream containing at least 1% hydrocortisone can temporarily relieve the itch. Apply it no more than twice a day to the affected area before moisturizing. Once your reaction has improved, you may use this type of cream less often to prevent flares.
Take an oral allergy or anti-itch medication. Options include nonprescription allergy medicines (antihistamines) — such as cetirizine (Zyrtec Allergy) or fexofenadine (Allegra Allergy). Also, diphenhydramine (Benadryl, others) may be helpful if itching is severe. But it causes drowsiness, so it's better for bedtime. The type of antihistamine that causes drowsiness may negatively affect the school performance of some children.
Don't scratch. Rather than scratching when you itch, try pressing on or patting the skin. Cover the itchy area if you can't keep from scratching it. Keep your nails trimmed. For children, it might help to trim their nails and have them wear socks or gloves at night.
Take a daily bath or shower. Use warm, rather than hot, water. If you're taking a bath, sprinkle the water with colloidal oatmeal, which is finely ground oatmeal made for bathing (Aveeno, others). Soak for less than 10 minutes, then pat dry. Apply moisturizer while the skin is still damp (within three minutes).
Use a gentle, nonsoap cleanser. Choose one without dyes, alcohols or fragrances. Harsh soaps can wash away your skin's natural oils. Be sure to rinse off the cleanser completely.
Take a bleach bath. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a bleach bath for relief from severe or frequent flares. Talk with your health care provider about whether this is a good option for you.
A diluted-bleach bath decreases bacteria on the skin and related infections. Add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measurements are for a U.S.-standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes.
Soak from the neck down or just the affected areas for 5 to10 minutes. Don't put the head under water. Rinse off the bleach water with tap water. Take a bleach bath 2 to 3 times a week.
Use a humidifier. Hot, dry indoor air can parch sensitive skin and worsen itching and flaking. A portable home humidifier or a humidifier attached to your furnace adds moisture to the air inside your home.
Wear cool, smooth-textured clothing. Avoiding clothing that's rough, tight or scratchy. Also, in hot weather or while exercising, choose lightweight clothing that lets your skin breathe. When washing your clothing, avoid harsh detergents and fabric softeners added during the drying cycle.
Treat stress and anxiety. Stress and other emotional disorders can worsen atopic dermatitis. Being aware of stress and anxiety and taking steps to improve your emotional health may help your skin too.
More Information
Atopic dermatitis: Proper bathing can reduce itching
Atopic dermatitis: Understand your triggers
Ease stress to reduce eczema symptoms
Show more related information
Symptoms=Atopic dermatitis on the chest
Enlarge image
Infantile eczema
Enlarge image
Atopic dermatitis (eczema) symptoms can appear anywhere on the body and vary widely from person to person. They may include:
Dry, cracked skin
Itchiness (pruritus)
Rash on swollen skin that varies in color depending on your skin color
Small, raised bumps, on brown or Black skin
Oozing and crusting
Thickened skin
Darkening of the skin around the eyes
Raw, sensitive skin from scratching
Atopic dermatitis often begins before age 5 and may continue into the teen and adult years. For some people, it flares and then clears up for a time, even for several years.
Risk Factors
The main risk factor for atopic dermatitis is having had eczema, allergies, hay fever or asthma in the past. Having family members with these conditions also increases your risk.
Prevention
Developing a basic skin care routine may help prevent eczema flares. The following tips may help reduce the drying effects of bathing:
Moisturize your skin at least twice a day. Creams, ointments, shea butter and lotions seal in moisture. Choose a product or products that work well for you. Ideally, the best one for you will be safe, effective, affordable and unscented.
Using petroleum jelly on your baby's skin may help prevent development of atopic dermatitis.
Take a daily bath or shower. Use warm, rather than hot, water and limit your bath or shower to about 10 minutes.
Use a gentle, nonsoap cleanser. Choose a cleanser that's free of dyes, alcohols and fragrance. For young children, you usually need only warm water to get them clean — no soap or bubble bath needed. Soap can be especially irritating to the skin of young children. For people of any age, deodorant soaps and antibacterial soaps can remove too much of the skin's natural oils and dry the skin. Don't scrub the skin with a washcloth or loofah.
Pat dry. After bathing, gently pat the skin with a soft towel. Apply moisturizer while your skin is still damp (within three minutes).
The triggers for atopic dermatitis vary widely from person to person. Try to identify and avoid irritants that trigger your eczema. In general, avoid anything that causes an itch because scratching often triggers a flare.
Common triggers for atopic dermatitis include:
Rough wool fabric
Dry skin
Skin infection
Heat and sweat
Stress
Cleaning products
Dust mites and pet dander
Mold
Pollen
Smoke from tobacco
Cold and dry air
Fragrances
Other irritating chemicals
Infants and children may have flares triggered by eating certain foods, such as eggs and cow's milk. Talk with your child's health care provider about identifying potential food allergies.
Once you understand what triggers your eczema, talk with your health care provider about how to manage your symptoms and prevent flares.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Atrial fibrillation
Home Remedies
Following a heart-healthy lifestyle can help prevent or treat conditions that can lead to atrial fibrillation (AFib). The following changes are recommended to improve heart health:
Eat healthy foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Exercise and stay active. Regular physical activity helps control diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure — all risk factors for heart disease. Try to get 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you need help quitting, talk to your health care team.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with your care provider to set realistic goals for weight.
Control blood pressure. Get your blood pressure checked at least every two years if you're 18 and older. If you have risk factors for heart disease or are over age 40, you may need more-frequent checks. If you have high blood pressure, follow your treatment plan as directed.
Get your cholesterol checked. Ask your health care team how often you need a cholesterol test. Lifestyle changes and medicines may be recommended to control high cholesterol.
Limit alcohol. Binge drinking (having five drinks in two hours for men or four drinks for women) can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation. In some people, even lower amounts of alcohol can trigger AFib.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily.
It's also important to have regular health checkups. Tell your health care team if your AFib symptoms get worse.
More Information
Atrial fibrillation care at Mayo Clinic
Planning to travel with atrial fibrillation?
Should I make changes to my diet if I've been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation?
Symptoms=Symptoms of AFib may include:
Feelings of a fast, fluttering or pounding heartbeat, called palpitations.
Chest pain.
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Lightheadedness.
Reduced ability to exercise.
Shortness of breath.
Weakness.
Some people with atrial fibrillation (AFib) don't notice any symptoms.
Atrial fibrillation may be:
Occasional, also called paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. AFib symptoms come and go. The symptoms usually last for a few minutes to hours. Some people have symptoms for as long as a week. The episodes can happen repeatedly. Symptoms might go away on their own. Some people with occasional AFib need treatment.
Persistent. The irregular heartbeat is constant. The heart rhythm does not reset on its own. If symptoms occur, medical treatment is needed to correct the heart rhythm.
Long-standing persistent. This type of AFib is constant and lasts longer than 12 months. Medicines or a procedure are needed to correct the irregular heartbeat.
Permanent. In this type of atrial fibrillation, the irregular heart rhythm can't be reset. Medicines are needed to control the heart rate and to prevent blood clots.
Risk Factors
Things that can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation (AFib) include:
Age. The risk of AFib increases as you grow older.
Caffeine, nicotine or illegal drug use. Caffeine, nicotine and some illegal drugs — such as amphetamines and cocaine — can cause your heart to beat faster. Use of these substances may lead to the development of more-serious arrhythmias.
Drinking too much alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can affect the electrical signals in the heart. This can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation.
Changes in the level of body minerals. Minerals in the blood called electrolytes — such as potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium — help the heart beat. If these substances are too low or too high, irregular heartbeats may occur.
Family history. An increased risk of atrial fibrillation occurs in some families.
Heart problems or heart surgery. Coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and heart problems present at birth increase the risk of AFib. A history of heart attack or heart surgery also makes a person more likely to get the condition.
High blood pressure. Having high blood pressure increases the risk of getting coronary artery disease. Over time, high blood pressure may cause part of the heart to become stiff and thick. This can change how heartbeat signals travel through the heart.
Obesity. People who have obesity are at higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation.
Other long-term health conditions. You may be more likely to get AFib if you have diabetes, chronic kidney disease, lung disease or sleep apnea.
Some medicines and supplements. Some prescription medicines and certain cough and cold remedies bought without a prescription can cause irregular heartbeats.
Thyroid disease. Having an overactive thyroid gland can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats.
Prevention
Healthy lifestyle choices can reduce the risk of heart disease and may prevent atrial fibrillation (AFib). Here are some basic heart-healthy tips:
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Don't smoke or use tobacco.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week unless your health care team says not to.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2014/07/07/14/43/mcdc11_heartforafib.jpg
Condition
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children
Home Remedies
Because ADHD is complex and each person with ADHD is unique, it's hard to make recommendations that work for every child. But some of the following suggestions may help create an environment in which your child can succeed.
Children at home
Show your child lots of affection. Children need to hear that they're loved and appreciated. Focusing only on the negative aspects of your child's behavior can harm your relationship and affect self-confidence and self-esteem. If your child has a hard time accepting verbal signs of affection, a smile, a pat on the shoulder or a hug can show you care. Look for behaviors for which you can compliment your child regularly.
Find ways to improve self-esteem. Children with ADHD often do well with art projects, music or dance lessons, or martial arts classes. Choose activities based on their interests and abilities. All children have special talents and interests that can be fostered. Small frequent successes help build self-esteem.
Use simple words and demonstrate when giving your child directions. Speak slowly and quietly and be very specific and concrete. Give one direction at a time. Stop and make eye contact with your child before and while you're giving directions.
Identify difficult situations. Try to avoid situations that are difficult for your child, such as sitting through long presentations or shopping in malls and stores where the array of merchandise can be overwhelming.
Use timeouts or appropriate consequences for discipline. Start with firm, loving discipline that rewards good behavior and discourages negative behavior. Timeouts should be relatively brief, but long enough for your child to regain control. The idea is to interrupt and defuse out-of-control behavior. Children can also be expected to accept the results of the choices they make.
Work on organization. Help your child organize and maintain a daily assignment and activities notebook or chart and be sure your child has a quiet place to study. Group objects in the child's room and store them in clearly marked spaces. Try to help your child keep his or her environment organized and uncluttered.
Try to keep a regular schedule for meals, naps and bedtime. Children with ADHD have a hard time accepting and adjusting to change. Use a big calendar to mark special activities that will be coming up and everyday chores. Avoid or at least warn children of sudden transitions from one activity to another.
Encourage social interaction. Help your child learn social skills by modeling, recognizing and rewarding positive interactions with peers.
Adopt healthy lifestyle habits. Make sure your child is rested. Try to keep your child from becoming overtired because fatigue often makes ADHD symptoms worse. It's important that your child eat a balanced diet for healthy development. In addition to its health benefits, regular exercise may have a positive effect on behavior when added to treatment.
Children in school
Learn all you can about ADHD and opportunities that are available to help your child be successful. You are your child's best advocate.
Ask about school programs. Schools are required by law to have a program to make sure children who have a disability that interferes with learning get the support they need. Your child may be eligible for additional services offered under federal laws: Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 or the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). These can include evaluation, curriculum adjustments, changes in classroom setup, modified teaching techniques, study skills instruction, use of computers, and increased collaboration between parents and teachers.
Talk to your child's teachers. Stay in close communication with teachers and support their efforts to help your child in the classroom. Be sure teachers closely monitor your child's work, provide positive feedback, and are flexible and patient. Ask that they be very clear about their instructions and expectations.
Symptoms=The primary features of ADHD include inattention and hyperactive-impulsive behavior. ADHD symptoms start before age 12, and in some children, they're noticeable as early as 3 years of age. ADHD symptoms can be mild, moderate or severe, and they may continue into adulthood.
ADHD occurs more often in males than in females, and behaviors can be different in boys and girls. For example, boys may be more hyperactive and girls may tend to be quietly inattentive.
There are three subtypes of ADHD:
Predominantly inattentive. The majority of symptoms fall under inattention.
Predominantly hyperactive/impulsive. The majority of symptoms are hyperactive and impulsive.
Combined. This is a mix of inattentive symptoms and hyperactive/impulsive symptoms.
Inattention
A child who shows a pattern of inattention may often:
Fail to pay close attention to details or make careless mistakes in schoolwork
Have trouble staying focused in tasks or play
Appear not to listen, even when spoken to directly
Have difficulty following through on instructions and fail to finish schoolwork or chores
Have trouble organizing tasks and activities
Avoid or dislike tasks that require focused mental effort, such as homework
Lose items needed for tasks or activities, for example, toys, school assignments, pencils
Be easily distracted
Forget to do some daily activities, such as forgetting to do chores
Hyperactivity and impulsivity
A child who shows a pattern of hyperactive and impulsive symptoms may often:
Fidget with or tap his or her hands or feet, or squirm in the seat
Have difficulty staying seated in the classroom or in other situations
Be on the go, in constant motion
Run around or climb in situations when it's not appropriate
Have trouble playing or doing an activity quietly
Talk too much
Blurt out answers, interrupting the questioner
Have difficulty waiting for his or her turn
Interrupt or intrude on others' conversations, games or activities
Typical developmental behavior vs. ADHD
Most healthy children are inattentive, hyperactive or impulsive at one time or another. It's typical for preschoolers to have short attention spans and be unable to stick with one activity for long. Even in older children and teenagers, attention span often depends on the level of interest.
The same is true of hyperactivity. Young children are naturally energetic — they often are still full of energy long after they've worn their parents out. In addition, some children just naturally have a higher activity level than others do. Children should never be classified as having ADHD just because they're different from their friends or siblings.
Children who have problems in school but get along well at home or with friends are likely struggling with something other than ADHD. The same is true of children who are hyperactive or inattentive at home, but whose schoolwork and friendships remain unaffected.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for ADHD may include:
Blood relatives, such as a parent or sibling, with ADHD or another mental health disorder
Exposure to environmental toxins — such as lead, found mainly in paint and pipes in older buildings
Maternal drug use, alcohol use or smoking during pregnancy
Premature birth
Although sugar is a popular suspect in causing hyperactivity, there's no reliable proof of this. Many issues in childhood can lead to difficulty sustaining attention, but that's not the same as ADHD.
Prevention
To help reduce your child's risk of ADHD:
During pregnancy, avoid anything that could harm fetal development. For example, don't drink alcohol, use recreational drugs or smoke cigarettes.
Protect your child from exposure to pollutants and toxins, including cigarette smoke and lead paint.
Limit screen time. Although still unproved, it may be prudent for children to avoid excessive exposure to TV and video games in the first five years of life.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Auditory processing disorder
Home Remedies
There are simple steps you can take to manage auditory processing disorder (APD). For instance:
Try using a remote microphone to improve how well you can hear in a noisy room.
Move closer to the person who is speaking.
Think about covering surfaces that make sounds echo, such as open or empty spaces.
Move away from other sources of noise, such as a fan.
In a class or at a meeting, ask someone to take notes for you or get a written copy of what was said.
Ask for anything important to be in writing.
Use subtitles when watching TV.
Symptoms=Symptoms of auditory processing disorder (APD) can be subtle. Symptoms can include having trouble with:
Telling where sound is coming from.
Understanding words that are spoken quickly or in a noisy room.
Paying attention.
Reading and spelling.
Following directions unless they are short and simple.
Learning a new language.
Singing or enjoying music.
Understanding and remembering spoken information.
If you have APD, you also might:
Take longer to reply to someone who is talking to you.
Often need others to repeat themselves.
Not understand sarcasm or jokes.
APD is often seen with attention, language and learning issues like those seen in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of auditory processing disorder (APD) include:
Aging.
Stroke.
Head trauma.
Lead poisoning.
Seizure disorders.
Issues linked to birth, such as an early birth, low birth weight or a pregnant person using alcohol, drugs or tobacco.
Repeated ear infections, especially at a young age.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Back Pain
Home Remedies
Apply heat or ice packs to relieve inflammation.Gentle stretching exercises.Practicing good posture.Yoga poses for muscle relaxation.
Symptoms=Back pain can range from a muscle ache to a shooting, burning or stabbing feeling. Also, the pain can radiate down a leg. Bending, twisting, lifting, standing or walking can make pain worse.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bad breath
Home Remedies
To reduce or prevent bad breath:
Brush your teeth after you eat. Keep a toothbrush at work to use after eating. Brush using a fluoride-containing toothpaste at least twice a day, especially after meals. Toothpaste with antibacterial properties has been shown to reduce bad breath.
Floss at least once a day. Proper flossing removes food particles and plaque from between your teeth, helping to control bad breath.
Brush your tongue. Your tongue collects bacteria, so carefully brushing it may reduce odors. A tongue scraper may help people who have a coated tongue from a major overgrowth of bacteria, such as from smoking or dry mouth. Or use a toothbrush that has a built-in tongue cleaner.
Clean bridges, dentures, retainers and mouth guards. If you wear a bridge or a denture, clean it thoroughly at least once a day or as directed by your dentist. If you have a dental retainer or mouth guard, clean it each time before you put it in your mouth. Your dentist can recommend the best cleaning product.
Keep your mouth moist. Stay away from tobacco and drink plenty of water. Don't take in too much caffeine, spicy food or alcohol. All can dry out your mouth. Chew gum or suck on candy, preferably sugarless, to make more saliva. For constant dry mouth, your healthcare professional may prescribe an artificial saliva preparation or a medicine that you take by mouth that raises the flow of saliva.
Change your diet. Stay away from foods such as onions and garlic that can cause bad breath. Eating a lot of sugary foods also is linked with bad breath.
Replace your toothbrush. Change your toothbrush when it becomes frayed, about every 3 to 4 months or sooner as needed. Also, choose a soft-bristled toothbrush.
Schedule regular dental checkups. See your dentist regularly — generally twice a year. During these checkups, your dentist can look at your teeth or dentures and clean them.
Symptoms=Bad breath odors vary, depending on the cause. Some people worry too much about their breath even though they have little or no mouth odor. Others have bad breath and don't know it. Because it's hard to know how your breath smells, ask a close friend or relative to confirm if you have bad breath.
Risk Factors
Your risk of bad breath is higher if you eat foods known to cause bad breath, such as garlic, onions and spices. Smoking, not keeping your mouth clean and some medicines also can play a part, as can dry mouth, infections of the mouth and some diseases. In addition, other conditions such as GERD or cancer can lead to bad breath.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bags under eyes
Home Remedies
The following tips can help you reduce or eliminate bags under your eyes:
Use a cool compress. Wet a clean washcloth with cool water. While sitting up, apply the damp washcloth to the skin under and around your eyes for a few minutes using light pressure.
Cut down on fluids before bedtime and limit salt in your diet. This will reduce the fluid retention that can cause bags under eyes.
Don't smoke. Smoking can aggravate the problem of bags under your eyes.
Get enough sleep. For most adults, 7 to 9 hours is a good amount of sleep.
Sleep with your head slightly raised. It may help to add an extra pillow or prop up the head of your mattress. Or elevate the entire head of the bed a few inches. This helps prevent fluid from accumulating around your eyes as you sleep.
Reduce allergy symptoms. Avoid allergens when possible. Try nonprescription allergy medications. Talk to your health care provider about prevention strategies if you develop under-eye reactions due to hair dyes, soaps, cosmetics or other allergens.
Use cosmetics. If you wish to mask your under-eye circles, try using makeup.
Symptoms=Symptoms of bags under eyes can include:
Mild swelling
Saggy or loose skin
Dark circles
When to see a health care provider
You may not like the way they look, but bags under eyes are usually harmless and don't require medical care. See your health care provider if the condition causes vision problems, irritation or headaches or is accompanied by skin rash.
Your health care provider will want to rule out other possible causes that can contribute to the swelling, such as thyroid disease, infection, connective tissue disease or an allergy. You may be referred to a health care provider who specializes in the eyes (ophthalmologist), plastic surgery or plastic surgery of the eyes (oculoplastic surgeon).
Causes
Bags under eyes are caused when the tissue structures and muscles supporting your eyelids weaken. The skin may start to sag, and fat that's usually around the eye can move into the area below your eyes. Also, the space below your eyes can gather fluid, making the area look puffy or swollen. Several factors cause or worsen this effect, including:
Aging
Fluid retention, especially upon waking or after a salty meal
Lack of sleep
Allergies
Smoking
Genetics — under-eye bags can run in families
Medical conditions, such as dermatitis, dermatomyositis, renal disease and thyroid eye disease



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Baker cyst
Home Remedies
If arthritis is causing the cyst, your health care provider may advise you to take some or all of the following steps:
Follow the R.I.C.E. principles. These letters stand for rest, ice, compression and elevation. Rest your leg. Ice your knee. Compress your knee with a wrap, sleeve or brace. And elevate your leg when possible, especially at night.
Try over-the-counter pain-relieving medications. Drugs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve, others), acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) and aspirin can help relieve pain. Follow the dosing instructions on the package. Don't take more than the recommend dosage.
Reduce your physical activity. Doing so will reduce irritation of your knee joint. Your health care provider can offer you guidance on how long you need to reduce your activity levels. Your provider may be able to suggest alternative forms of exercise you can do in the meantime.
Symptoms=In some cases, a Baker cyst causes no pain, and you may not notice it. If you do have symptoms, they might include:
Swelling behind the knee, and sometimes in the leg
Knee pain
Stiffness and inability to fully flex the knee
The symptoms may be worse after you've been active or if you've been standing for a long time.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Barrett's esophagus
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes can ease symptoms of GERD, which may underlie Barrett's esophagus. Consider:
Maintaining a healthy weight.
Eliminating foods and drinks that trigger your heartburn, such as chocolate, coffee, alcohol and mint.
Stopping smoking.
Raising the head of your bed. Place wooden blocks under your bed to elevate your head.
Symptoms=The development of Barrett's esophagus is most often attributed to long-standing GERD, which may include these signs and symptoms:
Frequent heartburn and regurgitation of stomach contents
Difficulty swallowing food
Less commonly, chest pain
Curiously, approximately half of the people diagnosed with Barrett's esophagus report little if any symptoms of acid reflux. So, you should discuss your digestive health with your doctor regarding the possibility of Barrett's esophagus.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of Barrett's esophagus include:
Family history. Your odds of having Barrett's esophagus increase if you have a family history of Barrett's esophagus or esophageal cancer.
Being male. Men are far more likely to develop Barrett's esophagus.
Being white. White people have a greater risk of the disease than do people of other races.
Age. Barrett's esophagus can occur at any age but is more common in adults over 50.
Chronic heartburn and acid reflux. Having GERD that doesn't get better when taking medications known as proton pump inhibitors or having GERD that requires regular medication can increase the risk of Barrett's esophagus.
Current or past smoking.
Being overweight. Body fat around your abdomen further increases your risk.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bed-wetting
Home Remedies
Here are changes you can make at home that may help with bed-wetting:
Limit fluids in the evening. It's important to get enough fluids, so there's no need to limit how much your child drinks in a day. But encourage drinking liquids in the morning and early afternoon. This may lessen thirst in the evening. But don't limit evening fluids if your child has sports practice or games in the evenings.
Avoid drinks and foods with caffeine. Caffeine is not a good idea for children at any time of day. Because caffeine may stimulate the bladder, it should especially be avoided in the evening.
Urge double voiding before bed. Double voiding is passing urine at the beginning of the bedtime routine and then again just before falling asleep. Remind your child that it's OK to use the toilet during the night if needed. Use small night lights, so your child can easily find the way between the bedroom and bathroom.
Urge regular toilet use throughout the day. During the day and evening, suggest that your child pass urine every 2 to 3 hours or so, or at least often enough to avoid a feeling of needing to pass urine right away.
Prevent rashes. To prevent a rash caused by wet underwear, help your child rinse their bottom and genital area every morning. It also may help to cover the affected area with a protective moisture barrier ointment or cream at bedtime. Ask your health care professional for product suggestions.
Symptoms=Most kids are fully toilet trained by age 5, but there's really no target date for having complete bladder control. Between the ages of 5 and 7, bed-wetting remains a problem for some children. After 7 years of age, a small number of children still wet the bed.
Risk Factors
Bed-wetting can affect anyone, but it's twice as common in boys as in girls.
Several factors have been linked with an increased risk of bed-wetting, including:
Stress and anxiety. Stressful events may trigger bed-wetting. Examples include having a new baby in the family, starting a new school or sleeping away from home.
Family history. If one or both of a child's parents wet the bed as children, their child has an increased chance of wetting the bed, too.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Bed-wetting is more common in children who have ADHD.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bee sting
Home Remedies
For a minor or moderate bee sting, follow these first-aid steps:
Move to a safe area to avoid more stings.
If you see a stinger sticking out of the wound — it looks like a black dot — remove it as soon as possible. Try scraping it off with a fingernail or the blunt edge of a knife. A stinger may not be present, as only bees leave a stinger. Other stinging insects, such as wasps, do not.
Wash the sting area with soap and water.
Remove any rings in the sting area right away, before swelling gets worse.
Apply to the area a cloth dampened with cold water or filled with ice. Keep it on the sting for 10 to 20 minutes. Repeat as needed.
If the sting is on an arm or leg, raise it. Swelling may increase over the next two days but usually goes away with time and elevation.
Apply hydrocortisone cream or calamine lotion to ease itching and swelling. Do this up to four times a day until your symptoms go away.
If needed, take a pain reliever. Pain medicine you can buy without a prescription can help ease pain. Examples are ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). If the sting area itches, take an anti-itch medicine by mouth. This type of medicine is also called an antihistamine. Examples are diphenhydramine (Benadryl), chlorpheniramine, loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others), cetirizine (Zyrtec Allergy) and fexofenadine (Allegra Allergy). Some of these products can make you drowsy.
What to avoid
Don't scratch the sting area. Scratching can lead to infection.
Don't rub the sting with mud, as mud contains many germs.
Don't try to remove a stinger below the skin surface. It will come out over time as the skin sheds.
Don't apply heat.
Symptoms=Bee sting symptoms can range from pain and swelling to a life-threatening allergic reaction. Having one type of reaction doesn't mean you'll always have the same reaction every time you're stung or that the next reaction will be more severe.

Mild reaction. Most of the time, bee sting symptoms are minor and include instant, sharp burning pain, a welt and swelling. In most people, the swelling and pain go away within a few hours.
Moderate reaction. Some people who get stung by a bee or other insect have a stronger reaction, with burning pain, a welt, itching, flushing and swelling that gets worse over the next day or two. The symptoms can last up to seven days.
Severe reaction. A severe reaction to a bee sting is potentially life-threatening and requires emergency treatment. This type of reaction is called anaphylaxis. A small percentage of people who are stung by a bee or other insect develop anaphylaxis. It usually happens 15 minutes to an hour after the sting. Symptoms include rash, itching, trouble breathing, swollen tongue, trouble swallowing and tightness in the chest.
Multiple bee stings. If you get stung more than a dozen times, you can have a bad reaction that makes you feel quite sick. Symptoms include those of a moderate reaction as well as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever and lightheadedness.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for a bee sting include:
Living in an area where bees are active.
Being near beehives.
Spending a lot of time outdoors.
Prevention
The following tips may help reduce your risk of a bee sting:
Take care when drinking sweet beverages outside. Use wide, open cups so you can see if a bee is in them. Inspect cans and straws before drinking from them.
Tightly cover food containers and trash cans, as odors from them can attract insects.
Clear away garbage, fallen fruit, and dog or other animal feces, as flies can attract wasps.
Wear closed-toe shoes when walking outside. Don't walk through flowers.
Don't use perfumes and scented hair and body products, as they can attract insects.
Don't wear bright colors or floral prints, as they can attract bees.
Be careful when mowing the lawn or trimming vegetation. Such activities might disturb insects in a beehive or wasp nest.
Avoid being near bees, yellow jackets and hornets. For example, remove hives and nests near your home if you can do this safely.
Know what to do when bees or other stinging insects are nearby:
If a few bees are flying around you, stay calm and slowly walk away from the area. Swatting at an insect may cause it to sting.
If a bee or wasp stings you, or many insects start to fly around, cover your mouth and nose and quickly leave the area. When a bee stings, it releases a chemical that attracts other bees. If you can, get into a building or closed vehicle.
People who have a severe reaction to a bee sting have on average a 50% chance of anaphylaxis the next time they're stung. Talk to a healthcare professional about prevention measures such as allergy shots to avoid a similar reaction if you get stung again.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
The following tips may help reduce your risk of a bee sting:
Take care when drinking sweet beverages outside. Use wide, open cups so you can see if a bee is in them. Inspect cans and straws before drinking from them.
Tightly cover food containers and trash cans, as odors from them can attract insects.
Clear away garbage, fallen fruit, and dog or other animal feces, as flies can attract wasps.
Wear closed-toe shoes when walking outside. Don't walk through flowers.
Don't use perfumes and scented hair and body products, as they can attract insects.
Don't wear bright colors or floral prints, as they can attract bees.
Be careful when mowing the lawn or trimming vegetation. Such activities might disturb insects in a beehive or wasp nest.
Avoid being near bees, yellow jackets and hornets. For example, remove hives and nests near your home if you can do this safely.
Know what to do when bees or other stinging insects are nearby:
If a few bees are flying around you, stay calm and slowly walk away from the area. Swatting at an insect may cause it to sting.
If a bee or wasp stings you, or many insects start to fly around, cover your mouth and nose and quickly leave the area. When a bee stings, it releases a chemical that attracts other bees. If you can, get into a building or closed vehicle.
People who have a severe reaction to a bee sting have on average a 50% chance of anaphylaxis the next time they're stung. Talk to a healthcare professional about prevention measures such as allergy shots to avoid a similar reaction if you get stung again.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bell's palsy
Home Remedies
Home treatment may include:
Taking pain relievers. Aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) are available without a prescription and may help ease your pain.
Doing physical therapy exercises. Massaging and exercising your face according to your physical therapist's advice may help relax your facial muscles.
Symptoms=Facial paralysis
Enlarge image
Symptoms of Bell's palsy come on suddenly and may include:
Mild weakness to total paralysis on one side of the face — occurring within hours to days.
Facial droop and trouble making facial expressions, such as closing an eye or smiling.
Drooling.
Pain around the jaw or pain in or behind the ear on the affected side.
Increased sensitivity to sound on the affected side.
Headache.
Loss of taste.
Changes in the amount of tears and saliva produced.
Rarely, Bell's palsy can affect the nerves on both sides of the face.
Risk Factors
Bell's palsy occurs more often in people who:
Are pregnant, especially during the third trimester, or who are in the first week after giving birth.
Have an upper respiratory infection, such as the flu or a cold.
Have diabetes.
Have high blood pressure.
Have obesity.
It's rare for Bell's palsy to come back. But when it does, there's often a family history of repeated attacks. This suggests that Bell's palsy might have something to do with genes.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV)
Home Remedies
If you experience dizziness associated with BPPV, consider these tips:
Be aware of the possibility of losing your balance, which can lead to falling and serious injury.
Avoid movements, such as looking up, that bring on the symptoms.
Sit down immediately when you feel dizzy.
Use good lighting if you get up at night.
Walk with a cane for stability if you're at risk of falling.
Work closely with your doctor to manage your symptoms effectively.
BPPV may recur even after successful therapy. Although there's no cure, the condition can be managed with physical therapy and home treatments.
Symptoms=The signs and symptoms of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) may include:
Dizziness
A sense that you or your surroundings are spinning or moving (vertigo)
A loss of balance or unsteadiness
Nausea
Vomiting
The signs and symptoms of BPPV can come and go and commonly last less than one minute. Episodes of BPPV can disappear for some time and then recur.
Activities that bring about the signs and symptoms of BPPV can vary from person to person, but are almost always brought on by a change in head position. Some people also feel out of balance when standing or walking.
Abnormal rhythmic eye movements usually accompany the symptoms of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.
Risk Factors
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo occurs most often in people age 50 and older, but can occur at any age. BPPV is also more common in women than in men. A head injury or any other disorder of the balance organs of your ear may make you more susceptible to BPPV.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
Home Remedies
You can do things at home to help control the symptoms of an enlarged prostate.
Try to make healthy diet and exercise changes:
Drink less at night. Don't drink anything for an hour or two before bedtime. This helps prevent trips to the bathroom overnight.
Limit caffeine and alcohol. They can cause the body to make more urine, irritate the bladder and make symptoms worse.
Watch what you eat. Foods with lots of seasoning can irritate the bladder.
Become more active. Exercise can help reduce urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate.
Stay at a healthy weight. Obesity is linked with an enlarged prostate.
Also try these bathroom habits:
Go when you first feel the urge. Waiting too long might stretch the bladder muscle too much and cause damage.
Plan bathroom breaks. Try to pee at regular times, such as every couple of hours, during the day. This can be useful if you need to pee often and urgently.
Pee and then pee again a few moments later. This practice is known as double voiding.
Other things that might help include:
Limiting decongestants or antihistamines. These medicines tighten the band of muscles around the urethra that control urine flow. This makes it harder to pee.
Staying warm. Colder temperatures can cause urine retention and increase the urgency to urinate.
More Information
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) care at Mayo Clinic
Enlarged prostate: Does diet play a role?
Symptoms=Common symptoms of BPH include:
Frequent or urgent need to pee, also called urination.
Peeing more often at night.
Trouble starting to pee.
Weak urine stream, or a stream that stops and starts.
Dribbling at the end of urination.
Not being able to fully empty the bladder.
Less common symptoms include:
Urinary tract infection.
Not being able to pee.
Blood in the urine.
The symptoms of BPH tend to slowly get worse. But sometimes they stay the same or even improve over time.
The size of the prostate doesn't always determine how serious the symptoms are. Some people with slightly enlarged prostates can have major symptoms. Others who have very enlarged prostates can have minor problems. And some people with enlarged prostates don't have any symptoms at all.
Other possible causes of urinary symptoms
Some other health problems can lead to symptoms that are like those caused by enlarged prostate. These include:
Urinary tract infection.
Inflamed prostate.
Narrowing of the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the body.
Scarring in the bladder neck due to past surgery.
Bladder or kidney stones.
Problems with nerves that control the bladder.
Cancer of the prostate or bladder.
Some medicines also may lead to symptoms that seem like those caused by BPH. These include:
Powerful pain-relieving medicines called opioids.
Cold and allergy medicines.
Older medicines for depression called tricyclic antidepressants.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for an enlarged prostate include:
Aging. An enlarged prostate gland rarely causes symptoms before age 40. After that, the chance of having an enlarged prostate and related symptoms starts to rise.
Family history. Having a blood relative with prostate problems makes you more likely to have problems with your prostate.
Diabetes and heart disease. Studies show that diabetes might raise the risk of BPH. So might heart disease.
Lifestyle. Obesity raises the risk of BPH. Exercise can help lower the risk.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Binge-eating disorder
Home Remedies
Along with getting professional help, you can take these self-care steps as part of your treatment plan:
Stay with your treatment. Don't skip therapy sessions. If you have a meal plan, do your best to stay with it. Don't let setbacks keep you from continuing treatment.
Stay away from dieting. Trying to diet can trigger more binge eating, leading to a vicious cycle that's hard to break.
Eat regularly. For example, eat every 2 to 3 hours to try to break the restrict-then-binge cycle.
Plan ahead for triggering situations. Being around certain foods can trigger eating binges for some people. Plan what to do when you're around foods that are tempting.
Get the right nutrients. Just because you may be eating a lot during binges doesn't mean you're eating the kinds of food that have all the nutrients you need. Ask your healthcare professional if you need to adjust your diet to get essential vitamins and minerals.
Stay connected. Don't isolate yourself from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Surround yourself with people who have your best interests at heart.
Get active. Ask your healthcare professional what kind of physical activity is best for you.
Symptoms=If you have binge-eating disorder, you may be overweight or obese, or you may be at a healthy weight. Most people with binge-eating disorder feel upset about their body size or shape no matter what the number on the scale is.
Symptoms of binge-eating disorder vary but can include:
Feeling that you don't have control over your eating behavior, for example, you can't stop once you start.
Often eating much larger than usual amounts of food in a specific amount of time, such as over a two-hour period.
Eating even when you're full or not hungry.
Eating very fast during eating binges.
Eating until you're uncomfortably full.
Often eating alone or in secret.
Feeling depressed, disgusted, ashamed, guilty or upset about your eating.
A person with bulimia nervosa, another eating disorder, may binge and then vomit, use laxatives or exercise excessively to get rid of extra calories. This is not the case with binge-eating disorder. If you have binge-eating disorder, you may try to diet or eat less food at mealtimes to compensate. But restricting your diet may simply lead to more binge eating.
How much eating binges affect your mood and ability to function in daily life gives an idea of how serious the condition is for you. Binge-eating disorder can vary over time. The condition may be short-lived, may go away and come back, or may continue for years if left untreated.
Risk Factors
Binge-eating disorder is more common in women than in men. People of any age can have binge-eating disorder, but it often begins in the late teens or early 20s.
Factors that can raise your risk of having binge-eating disorder include:
Family history. You're much more likely to have an eating disorder if your parents or siblings have — or had — an eating disorder. This may point to genes passed down in your family that increase the risk of having an eating disorder.
Dieting. Many people with binge-eating disorder have a history of dieting. Dieting or limiting calories throughout the day may trigger an urge to binge eat.
Mental health conditions. Many people who have binge-eating disorder feel negatively about themselves and their skills and accomplishments. Triggers for bingeing can include stress, poor body self-image and certain foods. Certain situations also can be triggers, for example, being at a party, having downtime or driving in your car.
Prevention
If you have a child with binge-eating behaviors:
Model body acceptance, regardless of body shape or size. Make it clear that dieting or restricting food is not healthy unless there's a diagnosed food allergy.
Talk with your child's healthcare professional about any concerns. The healthcare professional may be in a good position to identify early symptoms of an eating disorder and help get expert treatment right away. The professional also can recommend helpful resources you can use to support your child.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bipolar disorder
Home Remedies
You'll probably need to make lifestyle changes to stop cycles of behavior that make your bipolar disorder worse. Here are some steps to take:
Quit drinking or using street drugs. One of the biggest concerns with bipolar disorder is the negative results of risk-taking behavior and drug or alcohol misuse. Get help if you have trouble quitting on your own.
Form healthy relationships. Surround yourself with people who are a positive influence. Friends and family members can provide support and help you watch for warning signs of mood shifts.
Create a healthy routine. Having a regular routine for sleeping, eating and physical activity can help balance your moods. Eat a healthy diet. If you take lithium, talk with your healthcare professional about how much fluid and salt you should take in. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare professional or mental health professional about what you can do.
Check first before taking other medicines. Call your healthcare professional or mental health professional before you take medicines that another health professional prescribes or any supplements or medicines available without a prescription. For example, when taking lithium (Lithobid), you should avoid regularly using ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others). Sometimes other medicines cause depression or mania. Or these medicines may not work well with the medicines you take for bipolar disorder.
Think about keeping a mood chart. Keeping a record of your daily moods, treatments, sleep, activities and feelings may help identify triggers, effective treatment options and when treatment needs to be changed.
Symptoms=There are several types of bipolar and related disorders:
Bipolar I disorder. You've had at least one manic episode that may come before or after hypomanic or major depressive episodes. In some cases, mania may cause a break from reality. This is called psychosis.
Bipolar II disorder. You've had at least one major depressive episode and at least one hypomanic episode. But you've never had a manic episode.
Cyclothymia. You've had at least two years — or one year in children and teenagers — of many periods of hypomania symptoms and periods of depressive symptoms. These symptoms are less severe than major depression.
Other types. These types include bipolar and related disorders caused by certain drugs or alcohol, or due to a medical condition, such as Cushing's disease, multiple sclerosis or stroke.
These types may include mania, or hypomania, which is less extreme than mania, and depression. Symptoms can cause changes in mood and behavior that can't be predicted. This can lead to a lot of distress and cause you to have a hard time in life.
Bipolar II disorder is not a milder form of bipolar I disorder. It's a separate diagnosis. While the manic episodes of bipolar I disorder can be severe and dangerous, people with bipolar II disorder can be depressed for longer periods of time.
Bipolar disorder can start at any age, but usually it's diagnosed in the teenage years or early 20s. Symptoms can differ from person to person, and symptoms may vary over time.
Mania and hypomania
Mania and hypomania are different, but they have the same symptoms. Mania is more severe than hypomania. It causes more noticeable problems at work, school and social activities, as well as getting along with others. Mania also may cause a break from reality, known as psychosis. You many need to stay in a hospital for treatment.
Manic and hypomanic episodes include three or more of these symptoms:
Being much more active, energetic or agitated than usual.
Feeling a distorted sense of well-being or too self-confident.
Needing much less sleep than usual.
Being unusually talkative and talking fast.
Having racing thoughts or jumping quickly from one topic to another.
Being easy to distract.
Making poor decisions. For example, you may go on buying sprees, take sexual risks or make foolish investments.
Major depressive episode
A major depressive episode includes symptoms that are severe enough to cause you to have a hard time doing day-to-day activities. These activities include going to work or school, as well as taking part in social activities and getting along with others.
An episode includes five or more of these symptoms:
Having a depressed mood. You may feel sad, empty, hopeless or tearful. Children and teens who are depressed can seem irritable, angry or hostile.
Having a marked loss of interest or feeling no pleasure in all or most activities.
Losing a lot of weight when not dieting or overeating and gaining weight. When children don't gain weight as expected, this can be a sign of depression.
Sleeping too little or too much.
Feeling restless or acting slower than usual.
Being very tired or losing energy.
Feeling worthless, feeling too guilty or feeling guilty when it's not necessary.
Having a hard time thinking or concentrating, or not being able to make decisions.
Thinking about, planning or attempting suicide.
Other features of bipolar disorder
Symptoms of bipolar disorders, including depressive episodes, may include other features, such as:
Anxious distress, when you're feeling symptoms of anxiety and fear that you're losing control.
Melancholy, when you feel very sad and have a deep loss of pleasure.
Psychosis, when your thoughts or emotions disconnect from reality.
The timing of symptoms may be described as:
Mixed, when you have symptoms of depression and mania or hypomania at the same time.
Rapid cycling, when you have four mood episodes in the past year where you switch between mania and hypomania and major depression.
Also, bipolar symptoms may happen when you're pregnant. Or symptoms can change with the seasons.
Symptoms in children and teens
Symptoms of bipolar disorder can be hard to identify in children and teens. It's often hard to tell whether these symptoms are the usual ups and downs or due to stress or trauma, or if they're signs of a mental health problem other than bipolar disorder.
Children and teens may have distinct major depressive or manic or hypomanic episodes. But the pattern can vary from adults with bipolar disorder. Moods can shift fast during episodes. Some children may have periods without mood symptoms between episodes.
The most noticeable signs of bipolar disorder in children and teenagers may be severe mood swings that aren't like their usual mood swings.
Risk Factors
Factors that may raise the risk of getting bipolar disorder or cause the first episode include:
Having a first-degree relative, such as a parent or sibling, with bipolar disorder.
Periods of high stress, such as the death of a loved one or another traumatic event.
Drug or alcohol misuse.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent bipolar disorder. But getting treated as soon as you notice a mental health disorder can help stop bipolar disorder or other mental health conditions from getting worse.
If you've been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, here are some ways you can stop minor symptoms from becoming full-blown episodes of mania or depression:
Pay attention to warning signs. Talking with your care team about symptoms early on can stop episodes from getting worse. You may have found a pattern to your bipolar episodes and what causes them. Call your healthcare professional or mental health professional if you feel you're starting to have an episode of depression or mania. Ask your family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Get enough sleep. Sleep disruptions often cause bipolar instability.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol. Drinking alcohol or taking street drugs can make your symptoms worse and make them more likely to come back.
Take your medicines as directed. You may be tempted to stop treatment, but don't. Stopping your medicine or lowering your dose on your own may cause withdrawal effects. Also, your symptoms may get worse or return.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Black hairy tongue
Home Remedies
To keep your mouth and tongue healthy:
Brush your tongue. Give your tongue a gentle brushing whenever you brush your teeth. This removes dead cells, bacteria and food bits. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush or a flexible tongue scraper.
Brush after eating. Brush your teeth at least twice a day and ideally after every meal. Use a fluoride toothpaste.
Floss at least once a day. Proper flossing gets rid of food bits and plaque from between your teeth.
Visit your dentist regularly. Get professional teeth cleanings and regular mouth exams. This can prevent problems or help your dentist spot them early. Your dentist can let you know how often you should visit.
Eat a healthy diet. Drink plenty of water and eat a balanced diet that includes fresh fruits and vegetables.
Symptoms=Symptoms of black hairy tongue include:
Black color of the tongue, but the color may be brown, green, yellow or white.
A hairy or furry look to the tongue.
Changed taste or a metallic taste in your mouth.
Bad breath.
Gagging or tickling feeling in your mouth, if the papillae are very large.
Rarely, a burning feeling on the tongue if hairy black tongue is caused by a yeast or bacterial infection.
Risk Factors
Poor mouth and tongue cleaning, dry mouth, and eating only soft foods may raise your risk of black hairy tongue.
If you're male or an older adult, if you smoke, or if you've had hairy black tongue in the past, you may have a higher risk of the condition.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/14/ds01134_im03891_de7_black_hairy_tonguethu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Body dysmorphic disorder
Home Remedies
Body dysmorphic disorder warrants treatment from a mental health professional. But you can do some things to build on your treatment plan, such as:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions, even if you don't feel like going. Even if you're feeling well, continue to take your medications. If you stop, symptoms may come back. You could also experience withdrawal-like symptoms from stopping a medication too suddenly.
Learn about your disorder. Education about body dysmorphic disorder can empower you and motivate you to stick to your treatment plan.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your health care provider or mental health provider to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your health care provider or mental health provider if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel.
Practice learned strategies. At home, routinely practice the skills you learn during therapy so they become stronger habits.
Avoid drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and recreational drugs can worsen symptoms or interact with medications.
Get active. Physical activity and exercise can help manage many symptoms, such as depression, stress and anxiety. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or taking up another form of physical activity you enjoy. However, avoid excessive exercise as a way to fix a perceived flaw.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of body dysmorphic disorder include:
Being extremely preoccupied with a perceived flaw in appearance that to others can't be seen or appears minor
Strong belief that you have a defect in your appearance that makes you ugly or deformed
Belief that others take special notice of your appearance in a negative way or mock you
Engaging in behaviors aimed at fixing or hiding the perceived flaw that are difficult to resist or control, such as frequently checking the mirror, grooming or skin picking
Attempting to hide perceived flaws with styling, makeup or clothes
Constantly comparing your appearance with others
Frequently seeking reassurance about your appearance from others
Having perfectionist tendencies
Seeking cosmetic procedures with little satisfaction
Avoiding social situations
Preoccupation with your appearance and excessive thoughts and repetitive behaviors can be unwanted, difficult to control and so time-consuming that they can cause major distress or problems in your social life, work, school or other areas of functioning.
You may excessively focus over one or more parts of your body. The bodily feature that you focus on may change over time. The most common features people tend to fixate about include:
Face, such as nose, complexion, wrinkles, acne and other blemishes
Hair, such as appearance, thinning and baldness
Skin and vein appearance
Breast size
Muscle size and tone
Genitalia
A preoccupation with your body build being too small or not muscular enough (muscle dysmorphia) occurs almost exclusively in males.
Insight about body dysmorphic disorder varies. You may recognize that your beliefs about your perceived flaws may be excessive or not be true, or think that they probably are true, or be absolutely convinced that they're true. The more convinced you are of your beliefs, the more distress and disruption you may experience in your life.
Risk Factors
Body dysmorphic disorder typically starts in the early teenage years and it affects both males and females.
Certain factors seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering body dysmorphic disorder, including:
Having blood relatives with body dysmorphic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder
Negative life experiences, such as childhood teasing, neglect or abuse
Certain personality traits, such as perfectionism
Societal pressure or expectations of beauty
Having another mental health condition, such as anxiety or depression
Prevention
There's no known way to prevent body dysmorphic disorder. However, because body dysmorphic disorder often starts in the early teenage years, identifying the disorder early and starting treatment may be of some benefit.
Long-term maintenance treatment also may help prevent a relapse of body dysmorphic disorder symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bone spurs
Home Remedies
If you are overweight and have osteoarthritis of the hips or knees, weight loss may help ease bone spur pain. Even a small amount of weight loss may help.
Exercise can help people lose extra weight. It also can make muscles around joints stronger. Types of exercise that can help include walking, biking and swimming.
Symptoms=Osteoarthritis of the hip
Enlarge image
Bone spurs on spine
Enlarge image
Often, bone spurs don't cause symptoms. You might not know you have bone spurs until an X-ray for another condition reveals the growths. But sometimes, bone spurs can cause pain and loss of motion in your joints.
The symptoms depend on where the bone spurs are. Examples include:
Knee. Bone spurs in the knee can make it painful to extend and bend the leg.
Spine. On the small bones that form the spine, bone spurs can narrow the space that contains the spinal cord. These bone spurs can pinch the spinal cord or its nerve roots. That can cause weakness or numbness in the arms or legs.
Hip. Bone spurs can make it painful to move the hip. Sometimes, it might feel like the pain is in the knee or the thigh. Depending on their placement, bone spurs can reduce the range of motion in the hip joint.
Risk Factors
The risk of bone spurs is higher in people who have arthritis.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Brain aneurysm
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes to lower your risk
If you have an unruptured brain aneurysm, you may lower the risk of rupture by making these lifestyle changes:
Don't smoke cigarettes. If you smoke, talk to your health care provider. Your provider can suggest strategies or a treatment program to help you quit.
Control your blood pressure if you have high blood pressure.
Eat a healthy diet and exercise. Changes in diet and exercise can help lower blood pressure. Talk to your health care provider about changes that are appropriate for you.
Don't use drugs such as cocaine, methamphetamine or others. If you do use these drugs and would like to quit, talk to your provider.
Symptoms=Most brain aneurysms that haven't ruptured don't cause symptoms. This is especially true if they're small. Brain aneurysms may be found during imaging tests that are done for other conditions.
However, a ruptured aneurysm is a very serious condition, typically causing a severe headache. And if an unruptured aneurysm presses against brain tissue or nerves, it may cause pain and other symptoms.
Ruptured aneurysm
A sudden, severe headache is the key symptom of a ruptured aneurysm. This headache is often described by people as the worst headache they've ever experienced.
In addition to a severe headache, symptoms of a ruptured aneurysm can include:
Nausea and vomiting
Stiff neck
Blurred or double vision
Sensitivity to light
Seizure
A drooping eyelid
Loss of consciousness
Confusion
'Leaking' aneurysm
In some cases, an aneurysm may leak a slight amount of blood. When this happens, a more severe rupture often follows. Leaks may happen days or weeks before a rupture.
Leaking brain aneurysm symptoms may include:
A sudden, extremely severe headache that may last several days and up to two weeks.
Unruptured aneurysm
An unruptured brain aneurysm may not have any symptoms, especially if it's small. However, a larger unruptured aneurysm may press on brain tissues and nerves.
Symptoms of an unruptured brain aneurysm may include:
Pain above and behind one eye.
A dilated pupil.
A change in vision or double vision.
Numbness of one side of the face.
Risk Factors
Several factors can contribute to weakness in an artery wall. These factors may increase the risk of a brain aneurysm or aneurysm rupture.
Some of these risk factors develop over time. But some conditions present at birth can increase the risk of developing a brain aneurysm.
Risk factors include:
Older age. Brain aneurysms can occur at any age. However, they're more common in adults between ages 30 and 60.
Being female. Brain aneurysms are more common in women than in men.
Cigarette smoking. Smoking is a risk factor for brain aneurysms to form and for brain aneurysms to rupture.
High blood pressure. This condition can weaken arteries. Aneurysms are more likely to form and to rupture in weakened arteries.
Drug use, particularly using cocaine. Drug use raises blood pressure. If illicit drugs are used intravenously, it can lead to an infection. An infection can cause a mycotic aneurysm.
Heavy alcohol use. This also can increase blood pressure.
Inherited connective tissue disorders, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. These disorders weaken blood vessels.
Polycystic kidney disease. This inherited disorder results in fluid-filled sacs in the kidneys. It also may increase blood pressure.
A narrow aorta, known as coarctation of the aorta. The aorta is the large blood vessel that delivers oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body.
Brain arteriovenous malformation, known as AVM. In this condition, arteries and veins in the brain are tangled. This affects blood flow.
A family history of brain aneurysm. Your risk is higher if you have family members who have had a brain aneurysm. This is particularly true if two or more first-degree relatives — such as a parent, brother, sister or child — has had a brain aneurysm. If you have a family history, you can ask your health care provider about getting screened for a brain aneurysm.
Some types of aneurysms may occur after a head injury or from certain blood infections.
Risk factors for a ruptured aneurysm
There are some factors that make it more likely an aneurysm will rupture. They include:
Having a large aneurysm.
Having aneurysms in certain locations.
Smoking cigarettes.
Having untreated high blood pressure.
Prevention
In many cases, brain aneurysms can't be prevented. But there are some changes you can make to lower your risk. They include quitting smoking if you smoke. Also work with your health care provider to lower your blood pressure if it's high. Don't drink large amounts of alcohol or use drugs such as cocaine.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/36/ds00582_im02314_r7_brainaneurysmthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Breast cysts
Home Remedies
To minimize discomfort associated with breast cysts, you might try these measures:
Wear a supportive bra. Supporting your breasts with a bra that fits well may help relieve some discomfort.
Apply a compress. Either a warm compress or an ice pack can help relieve pain.
Avoid caffeine. Studies haven't shown a link between caffeine and breast cysts. However, some women find symptom relief after eliminating caffeine from their diets. Consider reducing or eliminating caffeine — in beverages, as well as in foods such as chocolate — to see if your symptoms improve.
Consider trying over-the-counter pain medications if your doctor recommends them. Some types of breast pain may be eased by the use of acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, others).
Symptoms=Breast cysts may be found in one or both breasts. Signs and symptoms of a breast cyst include:
A smooth, easily movable round or oval lump that may have smooth edges — which typically, though not always, indicates it's benign
Nipple discharge that may be clear, yellow, straw colored or dark brown
Breast pain or tenderness in the area of the breast lump
An increase in breast lump size and breast tenderness just before your period
A decrease in breast lump size and resolution of other symptoms after your period
Having breast cysts doesn't increase your risk of breast cancer. But having cysts may make it harder to find new breast lumps or other changes that might need evaluation by your doctor. Your breasts may feel lumpy and painful when you're menstruating, so it's important to be familiar with how your breasts feel throughout your menstrual cycle so that you'll know if something changes.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Broken collarbone
Home Remedies
Applying ice to the area for 20 to 30 minutes every few hours during the first 2 to 3 days after a collarbone break can help control pain and swelling.
Symptoms=Symptoms of a broken collarbone include:
Pain that increases when moving the shoulder.
Swelling, tenderness or bruising.
Skin over the break might look like a tent when gently pinched.
A bump on or near the shoulder.
A grinding or crackling sound when moving the shoulder.
Stiffness or not being able to move the shoulder.
Newborns often will not move their arm for days after breaking the collarbone during birth and will cry if someone moves the arm.
Risk Factors
Teenagers and children are at higher risk of a broken collarbone than are adults. The risk goes down after age 20. Then it rises again in older people as they lose bone strength with age.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Broken toe
Home Remedies
Raising the foot and using ice can help reduce swelling and pain. Prop your foot up when possible so that your injury is higher than your heart. If you use ice, wrap it in a towel so that it doesn't touch your skin. Use it for about 15 minutes at a time, taking a break of at least 20 minutes before icing again.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of a broken toe include:
Pain
Swelling
Change in skin color from bruising or bleeding under the skin
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bronchiolitis
Home Remedies
Though it may not be possible to shorten the length of your child's illness, you may be able to make your child more comfortable. Here are some tips:
Humidify the air. If the air in your child's room is dry, a cool-mist humidifier or vaporizer can moisten the air. This may help loosen mucus and lessen coughing. Be sure to keep the humidifier clean so that bacteria and molds don't grow in the machine.
Give your child liquids to stay hydrated. Infants should have formula or breast milk only. Your child's health care provider may add oral rehydration therapy. Older kids can drink whatever they want, such as water, juice or milk, as long as they're drinking. Your child may drink more slowly than usual because of swelling and mucus in the nose. Offer small amounts of liquid often.
Try saline nose drops to ease stuffiness. You can buy these drops without a prescription. They are effective, safe and won't irritate the nose, even for children. Put several drops into the opening on one side of the nose, called the nostril, then bulb suction that nostril right away. Be careful not to push the bulb too far into the nose. Repeat the same steps in the other nostril.
Consider pain relievers that you can buy without a prescription. For treatment of fever or pain, ask your child's health care provider about giving your child infants' or children's over-the-counter fever and pain medicines such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others). Those are safer than aspirin. Aspirin is not recommended in children due to the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially life-threatening condition. Children and teenagers recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin, as they have a higher risk of Reye's syndrome.
Avoid secondhand smoke. Smoke can worsen symptoms of respiratory infections. If a family member smokes, ask them to smoke outside of the house and outside of the car.
Don't use other over-the-counter medicines, except for fever reducers and pain relievers, to treat coughs and colds in children under 6 years old. Also, consider avoiding the use of these medicines for children younger than 12 years old. The risks to children outweigh the benefits.
Symptoms=For the first few days, the symptoms of bronchiolitis are much like a cold:
Runny nose.
Stuffy nose.
Cough.
Sometimes a slight fever.
Later, your child may have a week or more of working harder than usual to breathe, which may include wheezing.
Many infants with bronchiolitis also have an ear infection called otitis media.
Risk Factors
Bronchiolitis usually affects children under the age of 2 years. Infants younger than 3 months have the highest risk of getting bronchiolitis because their lungs and their ability to fight infections aren't yet fully developed. Rarely, adults can get bronchiolitis.
Other factors that increase the risk of bronchiolitis in infants and young children include:
Being born too early.
Having a heart or lung condition.
Having a weakened immune system. This makes it hard to fight infections.
Being around tobacco smoke.
Contact with lots of other children, such as in a child care setting.
Spending time in crowded places.
Having siblings who go to school or get child care services and bring home the infection.
Prevention
Because the viruses that cause bronchiolitis spread from person to person, one of the best ways to prevent infection is to wash your hands often. This is especially important before touching your baby when you have a cold, flu or other illness that can be spread. If you have any of these illnesses, wear a face mask.
If your child has bronchiolitis, keep your child at home until the illness is past to avoid spreading it to others.
To help prevent infection:
Limit contact with people who have a fever or cold. If your child is a newborn, especially a premature newborn, avoid being around people with colds. This is especially important in the first two months of life.
Clean and disinfect surfaces. Clean and disinfect surfaces and items that people often touch, such as toys and doorknobs. This is especially important if a family member is sick.
Wash hands often. Frequently wash your own hands and those of your child. Wash with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Keep an alcohol-based hand sanitizer handy to use when you're away from home. Make sure it contains at least 60% alcohol.
Cover coughs and sneezes. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue. Throw away the tissue. Then wash your hands. If soap and water aren't available, use a hand sanitizer. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your elbow, not your hands.
Use your own drinking glass. Don't share glasses with others, especially if someone in your family is ill.
Breastfeed, when possible. Respiratory infections are less common in breastfed babies.
Immunizations and medicines
In the U.S., respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in children who are less than a year old. Two options for immunization can help prevent young infants from getting severe RSV. Both are recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and others.
You and your healthcare professional should discuss which option is best to protect your child:
Antibody product called nirsevimab (Beyfortus). This antibody product is a single-dose shot given in the month before or during RSV season. It's for newborn babies and those younger than 8 months born during or entering their first RSV season. In the U.S., the RSV season typically is November through March, but it varies in Florida, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, Guam and other U.S. Pacific Island territories.
Nirsevimab also should be given to children 8 months through 19 months old who are at higher risk of severe RSV disease through their second RSV season. Higher risk conditions include:
Children with active chronic lung disease from being born too soon (prematurely).
Children with a severely weakened immune system.
Children with severe cystic fibrosis.
American Indian or Alaska Native children.
In rare situations, when nirsevimab is not available or a child is not eligible for it, another antibody product called palivizumab may be given. But palivizumab requires monthly shots given during the RSV season, while nirsevimab is only one shot. Palivizumab is not recommended for healthy children or adults.
Vaccine for pregnant people. The FDA approved an RSV vaccine called Abrysvo for pregnant people to prevent RSV in infants from birth through 6 months of age. A single-dose shot of Abrysvo can be given sometime from 32 weeks through 36 weeks of pregnancy during September through January in the U.S. Abrysvo is not recommended for infants or children.
Other viruses can cause bronchiolitis too. These include COVID-19 and influenza or flu. Getting seasonal COVID-19 and flu shots every year is recommended for everyone older than 6 months.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bronchitis
Home Remedies
If you have bronchitis, to help you feel better, you may want to try the following self-care measures:
Get enough rest. Rest and sleep help your body heal.
Drink plenty of fluids. Staying hydrated can help to thin mucus.
Avoid lung irritants. Don't smoke. Wear a mask when the air is polluted or if you're exposed to irritants, such as paint or household cleaners with strong fumes.
Use a humidifier. Warm, moist air helps relieve coughs and loosens mucus in your airways. Be sure to clean the humidifier according to the manufacturer's recommendations to avoid the growth of bacteria and fungi in the water container.
Consider a face covering in cold air. If cold air makes your cough worse and causes shortness of breath, put on a face mask or cover your mouth and nose with a scarf before you go outside.
Symptoms=If you have acute bronchitis, you may have cold symptoms, such as:

Cough
Production of mucus (sputum), which can be clear, white, yellowish-gray or green in color — rarely, it may be streaked with blood
Sore throat
Mild headache and body aches
Slight fever and chills
Fatigue
Chest discomfort
Shortness of breath and wheezing
While these symptoms usually improve in about a week, you may have a nagging cough that lingers for several weeks.
For chronic bronchitis, signs and symptoms may include:
Cough
Production of mucus
Fatigue
Chest discomfort
Shortness of breath
Chronic bronchitis is typically defined as a productive cough that lasts at least three months, with bouts that recur for at least two consecutive years. If you have chronic bronchitis, you're likely to have periods when your cough or other symptoms worsen. It's also possible to have an acute infection on top of chronic bronchitis.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of bronchitis include:
Cigarette smoke. People who smoke or who live with a smoker are at higher risk of both acute bronchitis and chronic bronchitis.
Low resistance. This may result from another acute illness, such as a cold, or from a chronic condition that compromises your immune system. Older adults, infants and young children have greater vulnerability to infection.
Exposure to irritants on the job. Your risk of developing bronchitis is greater if you work around certain lung irritants, such as grains or textiles, or are exposed to chemical fumes.
Gastric reflux. Repeated bouts of severe heartburn can irritate your throat and make you more prone to developing bronchitis.
Prevention
To reduce your risk of bronchitis, follow these tips:
Get an annual flu shot. Many cases of acute bronchitis result from influenza, a virus. Getting a yearly flu vaccine can help protect you from getting the flu. Also ask your doctor or clinic if you need a vaccination that protects against certain types of pneumonia.
Wash your hands. To reduce your risk of catching a viral infection, wash your hands frequently and get in the habit of using alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Also, avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Avoid close contact with people who have a viral infection. Stay away from people who have the flu or another respiratory illness.
Avoid cigarette smoke. Cigarette smoke increases your risk of chronic bronchitis.
Wear appropriate face covering. If you have COPD, consider wearing a face mask at work if you're exposed to dust or fumes. Talk to your employer about the appropriate protection. Wearing a face mask when you're going to be among crowds helps reduce exposure to infections.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bruxism (teeth grinding)
Home Remedies
These self-care steps may prevent or help treat bruxism:
Reduce stress. Listening to music, taking a warm bath or exercising can help you relax and may reduce your risk of developing bruxism.
Avoid stimulating substances in the evening. Don't drink caffeinated coffee or caffeinated tea after dinner and avoid alcohol during the evening, as they may worsen bruxism.
Practice good sleep habits. Getting a good night's sleep, which may include treatment for sleep problems, may help reduce bruxism.
Talk to your sleep partner. If you have a sleeping partner, ask him or her to be aware of any grinding or clicking sounds that you might make while sleeping so you can report this to your dentist or doctor.
Schedule regular dental exams. Dental exams are the best way to identify bruxism. Your dentist can spot signs of bruxism in your mouth and jaw during regular visits and exams.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of bruxism may include:
Teeth grinding or clenching, which may be loud enough to wake up your sleep partner
Teeth that are flattened, fractured, chipped or loose
Worn tooth enamel, exposing deeper layers of your tooth
Increased tooth pain or sensitivity
Tired or tight jaw muscles, or a locked jaw that won't open or close completely
Jaw, neck or face pain or soreness
Pain that feels like an earache, though it's actually not a problem with your ear
Dull headache starting in the temples
Damage from chewing on the inside of your cheek
Sleep disruption
When to see a doctor
See your dentist or doctor if you have any of the symptoms listed above or have other concerns about your teeth or jaw.
If you notice that your child is grinding his or her teeth — or has other signs or symptoms of bruxism — be sure to mention it at your child's next dental appointment.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Doctors don't completely understand what causes bruxism, but it may be due to a combination of physical, psychological and genetic factors.
Awake bruxism may be due to emotions such as anxiety, stress, anger, frustration or tension. Or it may be a coping strategy or a habit during deep concentration.
Sleep bruxism may be a sleep-related chewing activity associated with arousals during sleep.
Risk factors
These factors increase your risk of bruxism:
Stress. Increased anxiety or stress can lead to teeth grinding. So can anger and frustration.
Age. Bruxism is common in young children, but it usually goes away by adulthood.
Personality type. Having a personality type that's aggressive, competitive or hyperactive can increase your risk of bruxism.
Medications and other substances. Bruxism may be an uncommon side effect of some psychiatric medications, such as certain antidepressants. Smoking tobacco, drinking caffeinated beverages or alcohol, or using recreational drugs may increase the risk of bruxism.
Family members with bruxism. Sleep bruxism tends to occur in families. If you have bruxism, other members of your family also may have bruxism or a history of it.
Other disorders. Bruxism can be associated with some mental health and medical disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, dementia, gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD), epilepsy, night terrors, sleep-related disorders such as sleep apnea, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Complications
In most cases, bruxism doesn't cause serious complications. But severe bruxism may lead to:
Damage to your teeth, restorations, crowns or jaw
Tension-type headaches
Severe facial or jaw pain
Disorders that occur in the temporomandibular joints (TMJs), located just in front of your ears, which may sound like clicking when you open and close your mouth



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
These factors increase your risk of bruxism:
Stress. Increased anxiety or stress can lead to teeth grinding. So can anger and frustration.
Age. Bruxism is common in young children, but it usually goes away by adulthood.
Personality type. Having a personality type that's aggressive, competitive or hyperactive can increase your risk of bruxism.
Medications and other substances. Bruxism may be an uncommon side effect of some psychiatric medications, such as certain antidepressants. Smoking tobacco, drinking caffeinated beverages or alcohol, or using recreational drugs may increase the risk of bruxism.
Family members with bruxism. Sleep bruxism tends to occur in families. If you have bruxism, other members of your family also may have bruxism or a history of it.
Other disorders. Bruxism can be associated with some mental health and medical disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, dementia, gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD), epilepsy, night terrors, sleep-related disorders such as sleep apnea, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Buerger disease
Home Remedies
To improve symptoms of Buerger disease and prevent complications, take the following steps:
Exercise. Regular exercise helps improve blood flow. With your provider's OK, aim for 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care provider about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Check your skin. Buerger disease can cause a loss of feeling in the fingers, toes and other body areas. So an injury to the skin might go unnoticed. Check every day for cuts and scrapes on the arms and legs. Protect fingers and toes from cold and injury.
Clean cuts and scrapes. A lack of blood flow to the arms and legs increases the risk of infection. Even small cuts and scrapes can turn into serious infections. Always clean cuts and scrapes with soap and water to prevent infection. Apply antibiotic ointment and cover the cuts with clean bandages. If a skin injury gets worse or heals slowly, see a health care provider quickly.
Take care of your teeth and gums. Visit a dentist regularly to keep gums and teeth in good health. Long-term gum disease is linked to Buerger disease.
Do not smoke tobacco, vape or use marijuana. Not smoking is the best way to prevent and manage Buerger disease. Also avoid vaping, e-cigarettes and marijuana. It's also important to stay away from smoke from all burning tobacco products and the smoke a tobacco user breathes out. This type of smoke is called secondhand smoke. Any amount of secondhand smoke is bad for the heart and blood vessels.
Symptoms=Buerger disease symptoms include:
Tingling or numbness in the fingers or toes.
Changes in skin color in the hands and feet. The skin may look pale gray, red or blue. Depending on your skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fingers and toes that turn white then blue when exposed to cold, known as Raynaud's disease. Depending on your skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Pain in the feet that occurs with walking. The pain may make it difficult to walk long distances.
Painful open sores on fingers and toes. Pain in the fingers and toes may become severe and occur at rest.
Inflammation of a vein just below the skin's surface, due to a blood clot in the vein.
Risk Factors
The biggest risk factor for Buerger disease is smoking or using any type of tobacco. The disease can occur in people who smoke cigarettes, use cigars and chew tobacco. The rates of Buerger disease are highest in areas of the Mediterranean, Middle East and Asia where heavy smoking is most common.
Some research says that long-term use of marijuana, also called cannabis, also raises the risk of blood vessel problems similar to those of Buerger disease.
Other risk factors for Buerger disease include being male and being younger than 45 years old. Long-term infection of the gums in the mouth may also increase the risk. But more study is needed to confirm this link.
Prevention
Nearly everyone who has Buerger disease has smoked or used some form of tobacco. To prevent Buerger disease, it's important to not use tobacco.
Quitting smoking can be hard. Talk to a health care provider about ways to quit.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/35/ds00807_-my01232_im04356_mcdc7_buergerthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Bulimia nervosa
Home Remedies
In addition to professional treatment, use these self-care tips:
Follow your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions. Also, try to follow what you and your therapist plan for the time between sessions, even if those plans make you uncomfortable.
Learn about bulimia. Knowing more about your condition can help you stay with your treatment plan.
Get the right nutrition. If you aren't eating well or you're purging a lot, your body likely isn't getting all the nutrients it needs. Talk to your primary healthcare professional or dietitian about what vitamin and mineral supplements you need. But you should try to get most of your vitamins and minerals from food.
Stay in touch. Don't stay away from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Know that they have your best interests at heart. And having people who care about you in your life is healthy for you.
Be kind to yourself. Try not to weigh yourself or check yourself in the mirror a lot. These actions may fuel your drive to keep unhealthy habits.
Be cautious with exercise. Talk to your primary healthcare professional about what kind of physical activity is right for you, especially if you exercise a lot to burn off calories after binge eating.
Symptoms=Bulimia symptoms may include:
Living in fear of gaining weight and trying to lose weight in unhealthy ways.
Repeatedly eating unusually large amounts of food in one sitting.
Feeling a loss of control during binge eating. You may feel like you can't stop eating or can't control what you eat.
Vomiting on purpose or exercising to extremes after binge eating so that you don't gain weight.
Using medicines that make you urinate, called water pills or diuretics, or laxatives or enemas to pass stool when they're not needed.
Fasting, limiting calories or not eating certain foods between binges.
Using dietary supplements or herbal products for weight loss. These products can be dangerous.
Being very unhappy with your body shape and weight.
Letting your body shape and weight guide how you feel about yourself and your worth.
Having extreme mood swings.
People with bulimia may use different methods to purge. The severity of bulimia depends on the number of times a week that you purge and the problems caused by doing so.
Risk Factors
Females are more likely to have bulimia than males. Bulimia often begins in the late teens or young adulthood.
Factors that raise your risk of bulimia include:
Family history and genes. Having a family history of eating problems and weight-control issues can increase the risk of an eating disorder. People with first-degree relatives — siblings, parents or children — who are diagnosed with an eating disorder may be more likely to have an eating disorder. This suggests a possible genetic link.
Mental health and emotional issues. Mental health and emotional problems, such as depression, anxiety or substance misuse, are linked closely with eating disorders. People with bulimia may feel badly about themselves, especially if they're bullied about weight or shape. In some cases, distressing events and factors that cause emotional distress may play a part, such as being mistreated as a child.
Dieting. People who diet are more likely to have eating disorders. Many people with bulimia severely limit calories between binge-eating sessions. This may cause them to binge eat again and then purge. Other causes for binge eating can include stress, strong emotions, having a distorted or negative body image and boredom.
Prevention
Although there's no sure way to prevent bulimia, you can steer someone toward healthier behavior or professional treatment before it gets worse. Here's how you can help:
Promote and support a healthy body image in your children, no matter what their size or shape. Help them become more confident in many parts of their personality, not just how they look.
Have regular, enjoyable family meals.
Don't talk about weight or shape at home.
Discourage dieting. This is especially important when it involves unhealthy weight-control behaviors, such as fasting, labeling foods as good or bad, using weight-loss supplements or laxatives, or vomiting.
Talk with your primary healthcare professional to look for early signs of an eating problem.
If you notice a loved one or friend who seems to have food issues that could lead to or suggest an eating disorder, think about talking to the person about these issues and ask how you can help. If you do so, be supportive.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bullous pemphigoid
Home Remedies
If you have bullous pemphigoid, you can help take care of your condition with the following self-care strategies:
Wound care. Follow your doctor's advice for daily care of blisters.
Limit activities if needed. Blisters on the feet and hands can make it difficult to walk or to go about daily activities. You may need to change your routine until the blisters are under control.
Avoid sun exposure. Avoid prolonged sun exposure on any area of the skin affected by bullous pemphigoid.
Dress in loosefitting cotton clothes. This helps protect your skin.
Watch what you eat. If you have blisters in your mouth, avoid eating hard and crunchy foods, such as chips and raw fruits and vegetables, because these types of foods might aggravate symptoms.
Symptoms=The signs and symptoms of bullous pemphigoid may include:
Itching skin, weeks or months before blisters form
Large blisters that don't easily rupture when touched, often along creases or folds in the skin
Skin around the blisters that is normal, reddish or darker than normal
Eczema or a hive-like rash
Small blisters or sores in the mouth or other mucous membranes (benign mucous membrane pemphigoid)
Risk Factors
Bullous pemphigoid most commonly occurs in older adults, and the risk increases with age.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Burning mouth syndrome
Home Remedies
In addition to medical treatment and prescription medicines, these self-help measures may reduce your symptoms:
Drink plenty of liquid to help ease the feeling of dry mouth, or suck on ice chips.
Avoid acidic foods and liquids, such as tomatoes, orange juice, carbonated beverages and coffee.
Avoid alcohol and products with alcohol, as they may irritate the lining of your mouth.
Don't use tobacco products.
Don't eat irritating foods, such as spicy-hot foods.
Avoid products with cinnamon or mint.
Try different mild or flavor-free toothpastes, such as one for sensitive teeth or one without mint or cinnamon.
Take steps to reduce stress and try relaxation methods.
Symptoms=Symptoms of burning mouth syndrome may include:
A burning or scalding feeling that most commonly affects your tongue, but also may affect your lips, gums, roof of your mouth, throat or whole mouth.
A feeling of dry mouth with increased thirst.
Taste changes in your mouth, such as a bitter or metallic taste.
Loss of taste.
Tingling, stinging or numbness in your mouth.
The discomfort from burning mouth syndrome can have several different patterns. It may:
Happen every day, with little discomfort when waking up, but become worse as the day goes on.
Start as soon as you wake up and last all day.
Come and go.
Whatever pattern of mouth discomfort you have, burning mouth syndrome may last for months to years. In rare cases, symptoms may suddenly go away on their own or happen less often. Sometimes the burning feeling may be briefly relieved during eating or drinking.
Burning mouth syndrome usually doesn't cause any physical changes to your tongue or mouth that can be seen.
Risk Factors
Burning mouth syndrome is uncommon. However, your risk may be greater if you're:
Female.
In perimenopause or you're postmenopausal.
Over the age of 50.
A smoker.
Burning mouth syndrome usually starts suddenly, for no known reason. But certain factors may increase your risk of developing burning mouth syndrome, including:
Recent illness.
Some long-term medical conditions such as fibromyalgia, Parkinson's disease, autoimmune disorders and neuropathy.
Previous dental work.
Allergic reactions to food.
Certain medicines.
Traumatic life events.
Stress.
Anxiety.
Depression.
Prevention
There's no known way to prevent burning mouth syndrome. But you may be able to reduce your discomfort by not using tobacco, limiting acidic or spicy foods, not drinking carbonated beverages, and using stress management methods. Or these measures may prevent your discomfort from feeling worse.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Bursitis
Home Remedies
Measures you can take to relieve the pain of bursitis include:
Rest and don't overuse the affected area.
Apply ice to reduce swelling for the first 48 hours after symptoms occur.
Apply dry or moist heat, such as a heating pad or taking a warm bath.
Take an over-the-counter medication, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, others), to relieve pain and reduce inflammation. Some are available in a form you apply to the skin.
Cushion your knees if you sleep on your side by placing a small pillow between your legs.
Symptoms=If you have bursitis, the affected joint might:
Feel achy or stiff
Hurt more when you move it or press on it
Look swollen and red
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop bursitis, but certain factors can increase your risk:
Age. Bursitis becomes more common with aging.
Occupations or hobbies. If your work or hobby requires repetitive motion or pressure on particular bursae, your risk of developing bursitis increases. Examples include carpet laying, tile setting, gardening, painting and playing a musical instrument.
Other medical conditions. Certain systemic diseases and conditions — such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout and diabetes — increase your risk of developing bursitis. Being overweight can increase your risk of developing hip and knee bursitis.
Prevention
While not all types of bursitis can be prevented, you can reduce your risk and the severity of flare-ups by changing the way you do certain tasks. Examples include:
Using kneeling pads. Use some type of padding to reduce the pressure on your knees if your job or hobby requires a lot of kneeling.
Lifting properly. Bend your knees when you lift. Failing to do so puts extra stress on the bursae in your hips.
Wheeling heavy loads. Carrying heavy loads puts stress on the bursae in your shoulders. Use a dolly or a wheeled cart instead.
Taking frequent breaks. Alternate repetitive tasks with rest or other activities.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight places more stress on your joints.
Exercising. Strengthening your muscles can help protect your affected joint.
Warming up and stretching before strenuous activities to protect your joints from injury.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
While not all types of bursitis can be prevented, you can reduce your risk and the severity of flare-ups by changing the way you do certain tasks. Examples include:
Using kneeling pads. Use some type of padding to reduce the pressure on your knees if your job or hobby requires a lot of kneeling.
Lifting properly. Bend your knees when you lift. Failing to do so puts extra stress on the bursae in your hips.
Wheeling heavy loads. Carrying heavy loads puts stress on the bursae in your shoulders. Use a dolly or a wheeled cart instead.
Taking frequent breaks. Alternate repetitive tasks with rest or other activities.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight places more stress on your joints.
Exercising. Strengthening your muscles can help protect your affected joint.
Warming up and stretching before strenuous activities to protect your joints from injury.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
C. difficile infection
Home Remedies
Supportive treatment for diarrhea includes:
Plenty of fluids. Choose fluids that have water, salt and sugar, such as diluted fruit juice, soft drinks and broths.
Good nutrition. For watery diarrhea, eat starchy foods, such as potatoes, noodles, rice, wheat and oatmeal. Other good choices are saltine crackers, bananas, soup and boiled vegetables. If you aren't hungry, you may need a liquid diet at first. After the diarrhea clears up, you might have trouble digesting milk and milk-based products for a while.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=Symptoms often begin within 5 to 10 days after starting an antibiotic. But symptoms can occur as soon as the first day or up to three months later.
Mild to moderate infection
The most common symptoms of mild to moderate C. difficile infection are:
Watery diarrhea three or more times a day for more than one day.
Mild belly cramping and tenderness.
Severe infection
People who have a severe C. difficile infection tend to lose too much bodily fluid, a condition called dehydration. They might need to be treated in a hospital for dehydration. C. difficile infection can cause the colon to become inflamed. It sometimes can form patches of raw tissue that can bleed or make pus. Symptoms of severe infection include:
Watery diarrhea as often as 10 to 15 times a day.
Belly cramping and pain, which may be severe.
Fast heart rate.
Loss of fluids, called dehydration.
Fever.
Nausea.
Increased white blood cell count.
Kidney failure.
Loss of appetite.
Swollen belly.
Weight loss.
Blood or pus in the stool.
C. difficile infection that is severe and sudden can cause the colon to become inflamed and get larger, called toxic megacolon. And it can cause a condition called sepsis where the body's response to an infection damages its own tissues. People who have toxic megacolon or sepsis are admitted to an intensive care unit in the hospital. But toxic megacolon and sepsis aren't common with a C. difficile infection.
Risk Factors
People who have no known risk factors have gotten sick from C. difficile. But certain factors increase the risk.
Taking antibiotics or other medicines
The intestines house a wide range of bacteria. Many of them help protect the body from infection. Antibiotics that treat an infection tend to destroy some of the helpful bacteria in the body as well as the bacteria causing the infection.
Without enough helpful bacteria to keep it in check, C. difficile can grow out of control quickly. Any antibiotic can cause C. difficile infection. But the antibiotics that most often lead to C. difficile infection include:
Clindamycin.
Cephalosporins.
Penicillins.
Fluoroquinolones.
Taking a proton pump inhibitor, a type of medicine used to cut stomach acid, also may increase the risk of C. difficile infection.
Staying in a health care setting
Most C. difficile infections occur in people who are in or have recently been in health care settings. These include hospitals, nursing homes and long-term care facilities. These are places where germs spread easily, antibiotic use is common and people's health puts them at high risk of getting an infection. In hospitals and nursing homes, C. difficile spreads on:
Hands.
Cart handles.
Bedrails.
Bedside tables.
Toilets and sinks.
Stethoscopes, thermometers or other medical tools.
Telephones.
Remote controls.
Having a serious illness or medical procedure
Certain medical conditions or procedures can up the risk of getting a C. difficile infection, including:
Inflammatory bowel disease.
Weakened immune system from a medical condition or treatment such as chemotherapy.
Chronic kidney disease.
Procedures on the digestive tract.
Other surgery of the stomach area.
Other risk factors
Older age is a risk factor. In one study, the risk of becoming infected with C. difficile was 10 times greater for people age 65 and older compared with younger people.
Having one C. difficile infection increases the chance of having another one. The risk increases with each infection.
Prevention
To protect against C. difficile, don't take antibiotics unless you need them. Sometimes, you may get a prescription for antibiotics to treat conditions not caused by bacteria, such as viral illnesses. Antibiotics don't help infections caused by viruses.
If you need an antibiotic, ask if you can get a prescription for a medicine that you take for a shorter time or is a narrow-spectrum antibiotic. Narrow-spectrum antibiotics target a limited number of bacteria types. They're less likely to affect healthy bacteria.
To help prevent the spread of C. difficile, hospitals and other health care settings follow strict rules to control infections. If you have a loved one in a hospital or nursing home, follow the rules. Ask questions if you see caregivers or other people not following the rules.
Measures to prevent C. difficile include:
Hand-washing. Health care workers should make sure their hands are clean before and after treating each person in their care. For a C. difficile outbreak, using soap and warm water is better for cleaning hands. Alcohol-based hand sanitizers don't destroy C. difficile spores.
Visitors to health care facilities also should wash their hands with soap and warm water before and after leaving rooms or using the bathroom.
Contact precautions. People who are hospitalized with C. difficile infection have a private room or share a room with someone who has the same illness. Hospital staff and visitors wear disposable gloves and isolation gowns while in the room.
Thorough cleaning. In any health care setting, all surfaces should be carefully disinfected with a product that has chlorine bleach. C. difficile spores can survive cleaning products that don't have bleach.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Canker sore
Home Remedies
To help relieve pain and speed healing, consider these tips:
Rinse your mouth. Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water).
Dab a small amount of milk of magnesia on your canker sore a few times a day.
Avoid abrasive, acidic or spicy foods that can cause further irritation and pain.
Apply ice to your canker sores by allowing ice chips to slowly dissolve over the sores.
Brush your teeth gently, using a soft brush and foaming-agent-free toothpaste such as Biotene or Sensodyne ProNamel.
Symptoms=Most canker sores are round or oval with a white or yellow center and a red border. They form inside your mouth — on or under your tongue, inside your cheeks or lips, at the base of your gums, or on your soft palate. You might notice a tingling or burning sensation a day or two before the sores actually appear.
There are several types of canker sores, including minor, major and herpetiform sores.
Minor canker sores
Minor canker sores are the most common and:
Are usually small
Are oval shaped with a red edge
Heal without scarring in one to two weeks
Major canker sores
Major canker sores are less common and:
Are larger and deeper than minor canker sores
Are usually round with defined borders, but may have irregular edges when very large
Can be extremely painful
May take up to six weeks to heal and can leave extensive scarring
Herpetiform canker sores
Herpetiform canker sores are uncommon and usually develop later in life, but they're not caused by herpes virus infection. These canker sores:
Are pinpoint size
Often occur in clusters of 10 to 100 sores, but may merge into one large ulcer
Have irregular edges
Heal without scarring in one to two weeks
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop canker sores. But they occur more often in teens and young adults, and they're more common in females.
Often people with recurrent canker sores have a family history of the disorder. This may be due to heredity or to a shared factor in the environment, such as certain foods or allergens.
Prevention
Canker sores often recur, but you may be able to reduce their frequency by following these tips:
Watch what you eat. Try to avoid foods that seem to irritate your mouth. These may include nuts, chips, pretzels, certain spices, salty foods and acidic fruits, such as pineapple, grapefruit and oranges. Avoid any foods to which you're sensitive or allergic.
Choose healthy foods. To help prevent nutritional deficiencies, eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Follow good oral hygiene habits. Regular brushing after meals and flossing once a day can keep your mouth clean and free of foods that might trigger a sore. Use a soft brush to help prevent irritation to delicate mouth tissues, and avoid toothpastes and mouth rinses that contain sodium lauryl sulfate.
Protect your mouth. If you have braces or other dental appliances, ask your dentist about orthodontic waxes to cover sharp edges.
Reduce your stress. If your canker sores seem to be related to stress, learn and use stress-reduction techniques, such as meditation and guided imagery.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
Canker sores often recur, but you may be able to reduce their frequency by following these tips:
Watch what you eat. Try to avoid foods that seem to irritate your mouth. These may include nuts, chips, pretzels, certain spices, salty foods and acidic fruits, such as pineapple, grapefruit and oranges. Avoid any foods to which you're sensitive or allergic.
Choose healthy foods. To help prevent nutritional deficiencies, eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Follow good oral hygiene habits. Regular brushing after meals and flossing once a day can keep your mouth clean and free of foods that might trigger a sore. Use a soft brush to help prevent irritation to delicate mouth tissues, and avoid toothpastes and mouth rinses that contain sodium lauryl sulfate.
Protect your mouth. If you have braces or other dental appliances, ask your dentist about orthodontic waxes to cover sharp edges.
Reduce your stress. If your canker sores seem to be related to stress, learn and use stress-reduction techniques, such as meditation and guided imagery.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cardiomyopathy
Home Remedies
These lifestyle changes can help you manage cardiomyopathy:
Don't smoke. If you smoke, quit. You can ask your healthcare professional for help.
Lose weight if you're overweight. Ask your care team what a healthy weight is for you.
Get regular exercise. Talk to your healthcare professional about the safest type and amount for you.
Eat a healthy diet. Include a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Use less salt. Cut back on foods that are high in sodium. Aim for less than 1,500 milligrams of sodium a day.
Avoid or limit alcohol.
Manage stress.
Get enough sleep.
Take all medicines as prescribed.
Get regular health checkups.
Symptoms=Some people with cardiomyopathy don't ever get symptoms. For others, symptoms appear as the condition becomes worse. Cardiomyopathy symptoms can include:
Shortness of breath or trouble breathing with activity or even at rest.
Chest pain, especially after physical activity or heavy meals.
Heartbeats that feel rapid, pounding or fluttering.
Swelling of the legs, ankles, feet, stomach area and neck veins.
Bloating of the stomach area due to fluid buildup.
Cough while lying down.
Trouble lying flat to sleep.
Fatigue, even after getting rest.
Dizziness.
Fainting.
Symptoms tend to get worse unless they are treated. In some people, the condition becomes worse quickly. In others, it might not become worse for a long time.
Risk Factors
Many things can raise the risk of cardiomyopathy, including:
Family history of cardiomyopathy, heart failure and sudden cardiac arrest.
Long-term high blood pressure.
Conditions that affect the heart. These include a past heart attack, coronary artery disease or an infection in the heart.
Obesity, which makes the heart work harder.
Long-term alcohol misuse.
Illicit drug use, such as cocaine, amphetamines and anabolic steroids.
Treatment with certain chemotherapy medicines and radiation for cancer.
Many diseases also raise the risk of cardiomyopathy, including:
Diabetes.
Thyroid disease.
Storage of excess iron in the body, called hemochromatosis.
Buildup of a certain protein in organs, called amyloidosis.
The growth of small patches of inflamed tissue in organs, called sarcoidosis.
Connective tissue disorders.
Prevention
Inherited types of cardiomyopathy can't be prevented. Let your healthcare professional know if you have a family history of the condition.
You can help lower the risk of acquired types of cardiomyopathy, which are caused by other conditions. Take steps to lead a heart-healthy lifestyle, including:
Stay away from alcohol or illegal drugs such as cocaine.
Control any other conditions you have, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes.
Eat a healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Get enough sleep.
Lower your stress.
These healthy habits also can help people with inherited cardiomyopathy control their symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Carpal tunnel syndrome
Home Remedies
These steps may provide temporary symptom relief:
Take short, frequent breaks from repetitive activities involving the use of the hands.
Lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
Rotate the wrists and stretch the palms and fingers.
Take a pain reliever, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Wear a snug, not tight, wrist splint at night. You can buy these without a prescription at most drugstores or pharmacies.
Do not sleep on the hands.
If pain, numbness or weakness persists, see your healthcare professional.
More Information
Carpal tunnel syndrome care at Mayo Clinic
Carpal tunnel exercises: Can they relieve symptoms?
Symptoms=Symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome usually start gradually and include:
Tingling and numbness. Tingling and numbness may occur in the fingers or hand. Usually the thumb, index, middle and ring fingers are affected, but not the little finger. You might have a feeling like an electric shock in these fingers. These symptoms often occur while holding a steering wheel, phone or newspaper, or they may wake you from sleep.
The sensation also can travel from the wrist up the arm.
Many people "shake out" their hands to try to relieve their symptoms. The numb feeling may become constant over time.
Weakness. People with carpal tunnel syndrome may experience weakness in the hand and drop objects. This may be due to numbness or to weakness of the thumb's pinching muscles, which also are controlled by the median nerve.
Risk Factors
Several factors have been linked with carpal tunnel syndrome. Although they may not directly cause carpal tunnel syndrome, they may increase the risk of irritation or damage to the median nerve. These include:
Anatomical factors. A wrist fracture or dislocation can alter the space within the carpal tunnel. Arthritis that causes changes to the small bones in the wrist can affect the carpal tunnel. These changes can put pressure on the median nerve.
People who have smaller carpal tunnels may be more likely to have carpal tunnel syndrome.
Sex assigned at birth. Carpal tunnel syndrome is generally more common in women. This may be because the carpal tunnel area is relatively smaller in women than in men. Or it may be due to the effect of hormones on the lining of the tendons in the carpal tunnel.
Women who have carpal tunnel syndrome also may have smaller carpal tunnels than do women who don't have the condition.
Nerve-damaging conditions. Some chronic illnesses, such as diabetes, increase the risk of nerve damage, including damage to the median nerve.
Inflammatory conditions. Rheumatoid arthritis, gout and other conditions that cause swelling, known as inflammation, can affect the lining around the tendons in the wrist. This can put pressure on the median nerve.
Medicines. Some studies have shown a link between carpal tunnel syndrome and anastrozole (Arimidex), a medicine used to treat breast cancer.
Obesity. Being obese is a risk factor for carpal tunnel syndrome.
Body fluid changes. Fluid retention may increase the pressure within the carpal tunnel, irritating the median nerve. This is common during pregnancy and menopause. Carpal tunnel syndrome that happens with pregnancy generally gets better on its own after pregnancy.
Other medical conditions. Certain conditions, such as thyroid disorders, kidney failure and lymphedema, may increase the chances of getting carpal tunnel syndrome.
Workplace factors. Working with vibrating tools or on an assembly line that requires repeated movements that flex the wrist may create pressure on the median nerve. Such work also may worsen existing nerve damage. Pressure on the nerve can be worse if the work is done in a cold environment.
However, the scientific evidence is conflicting and these factors haven't been established as direct causes of carpal tunnel syndrome.
Several studies have evaluated whether there is a link between computer use and carpal tunnel syndrome. Some evidence suggests that mouse use, but not the use of a keyboard, may be related to carpal tunnel syndrome. There has not been enough quality and consistent evidence to support extensive computer use as a risk factor for carpal tunnel syndrome. However, computer use may cause a different form of hand pain.
Prevention
Enlarge image
There are no proven strategies to prevent carpal tunnel syndrome, but you can lessen stress on the hands and wrists with these methods:
Reduce your force and relax your grip. If your work involves a cash register or keyboard, for instance, hit the keys softly.
Take short, frequent breaks. Gently stretch and bend your hands and wrists periodically. Alternate tasks when possible. This is especially important if you use equipment that vibrates or that requires you to exert a great amount of force. Taking a break for even a few minutes each hour can make a difference.
Watch your form. Do not bend your wrist all the way up or down when using a keyboard. A relaxed middle position with the wrists parallel to the floor is best. Keep your keyboard at elbow height or slightly lower.
Improve your posture. The wrong posture can occur when you adjust your body to view a computer screen rather than adjusting the screen height and distance to a correct posture. The wrong posture rolls shoulders forward, shortens the neck and shoulder muscles, and compresses nerves in the neck. This can cause neck pain and also may bother the hands and arms.
Change your computer mouse. Make sure that your computer mouse is comfortable to use and doesn't strain your wrist.
Keep your hands warm. You're more likely to develop hand pain and stiffness if you work in a cold environment. If you can't control the temperature at work, put on fingerless gloves that keep the hands and wrists warm.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
Enlarge image
There are no proven strategies to prevent carpal tunnel syndrome, but you can lessen stress on the hands and wrists with these methods:
Reduce your force and relax your grip. If your work involves a cash register or keyboard, for instance, hit the keys softly.
Take short, frequent breaks. Gently stretch and bend your hands and wrists periodically. Alternate tasks when possible. This is especially important if you use equipment that vibrates or that requires you to exert a great amount of force. Taking a break for even a few minutes each hour can make a difference.
Watch your form. Do not bend your wrist all the way up or down when using a keyboard. A relaxed middle position with the wrists parallel to the floor is best. Keep your keyboard at elbow height or slightly lower.
Improve your posture. The wrong posture can occur when you adjust your body to view a computer screen rather than adjusting the screen height and distance to a correct posture. The wrong posture rolls shoulders forward, shortens the neck and shoulder muscles, and compresses nerves in the neck. This can cause neck pain and also may bother the hands and arms.
Change your computer mouse. Make sure that your computer mouse is comfortable to use and doesn't strain your wrist.
Keep your hands warm. You're more likely to develop hand pain and stiffness if you work in a cold environment. If you can't control the temperature at work, put on fingerless gloves that keep the hands and wrists warm.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cataracts
Home Remedies
To deal with symptoms of cataracts until you decide to have surgery, try to:
Make sure your prescription for your eyeglasses or contact lenses is up to date.
Use a magnifying glass to read if you need more help reading.
Improve the lighting in your home with more or brighter lamps.
Wear sunglasses or a broad-brimmed hat to reduce glare during the day.
Limit driving at night.
Self-care measures may help for a while, but your vision may get worse as the cataract grows. When vision loss starts to affect your everyday activities, consider cataract surgery.
Symptoms=Symptoms of cataracts include:
Clouded, blurred or dim vision.
Trouble seeing at night.
Sensitivity to light and glare.
Need for brighter light for reading and other activities.
Seeing "halos" around lights.
Frequent changes in eyeglass or contact lens prescription.
Fading or yellowing of colors.
Double vision in one eye.
At first, the cloudiness in your vision caused by a cataract may affect only a small part of the eye's lens. You may not notice any vision loss. As the cataract grows larger, it clouds more of your lens. More clouding changes the light passing through the lens. This may lead to symptoms you notice more.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of cataracts include:
Increasing age.
Diabetes.
Getting too much sunlight.
Smoking.
Obesity.
Family history of cataracts.
Previous eye injury or inflammation.
Previous eye surgery.
Prolonged use of corticosteroid medicines.
Drinking excessive amounts of alcohol.
Prevention
No studies have proved how to prevent or slow the growth of cataracts. But health care professionals think several strategies may be helpful, including:
Regular eye exams. Eye exams can help detect cataracts and other eye problems at their earliest stages. Ask your health care team how often you should have an eye examination.
Do not smoke. Ask a member of your health care team how to stop smoking. Medicines, counseling and other strategies are available to help you.
Manage other health problems. Follow your treatment plan if you have diabetes or other medical conditions that can increase your risk of cataracts.
Choose a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables. Adding fruits and vegetables to your diet ensures that you're getting many vitamins and nutrients. Fruits and vegetables have antioxidants. Antioxidants help maintain the health of your eyes.
Studies haven't proved that antioxidants in pill form can prevent cataracts. But a large population study recently showed that a healthy diet rich in vitamins and minerals reduced the risk of developing cataracts. Fruits and vegetables have many proven health benefits. Eating them is a safe way to get enough minerals and vitamins in your diet.
Wear sunglasses. Ultraviolet light from the sun may cause cataracts. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet B rays when you're outdoors.
Reduce alcohol use. Drinking too much alcohol can increase the risk of cataracts.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
No studies have proved how to prevent or slow the growth of cataracts. But health care professionals think several strategies may be helpful, including:
Regular eye exams. Eye exams can help detect cataracts and other eye problems at their earliest stages. Ask your health care team how often you should have an eye examination.
Do not smoke. Ask a member of your health care team how to stop smoking. Medicines, counseling and other strategies are available to help you.
Manage other health problems. Follow your treatment plan if you have diabetes or other medical conditions that can increase your risk of cataracts.
Choose a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables. Adding fruits and vegetables to your diet ensures that you're getting many vitamins and nutrients. Fruits and vegetables have antioxidants. Antioxidants help maintain the health of your eyes.
Studies haven't proved that antioxidants in pill form can prevent cataracts. But a large population study recently showed that a healthy diet rich in vitamins and minerals reduced the risk of developing cataracts. Fruits and vegetables have many proven health benefits. Eating them is a safe way to get enough minerals and vitamins in your diet.
Wear sunglasses. Ultraviolet light from the sun may cause cataracts. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet B rays when you're outdoors.
Reduce alcohol use. Drinking too much alcohol can increase the risk of cataracts.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Celiac disease
Home Remedies
If you've been diagnosed with celiac disease, you'll need to avoid all foods that contain gluten. Ask your health care team for a referral to a dietitian, who can help you plan a healthy gluten-free diet.
Read labels
Avoid packaged foods unless they're labeled as gluten-free or have no gluten-containing ingredients, including emulsifiers and stabilizers that can contain gluten. In addition to cereals, pastas and baked goods, other packaged foods that can contain gluten include:
Beers, lagers, ales and malt vinegars.
Candies.
Gravies.
Imitation meats or seafood.
Processed luncheon meats.
Rice mixes.
Salad dressings and sauces, including soy sauce.
Seasoned snack foods, such as tortilla and potato chips.
Seitan.
Self-basting poultry.
Soups.
Pure oats aren't harmful for most people with celiac disease, but oats can be contaminated by wheat during growing and processing. Ask your health care team if you can try eating small amounts of pure oat products.
Allowed foods
Many basic foods are allowed in a gluten-free diet, including:
Eggs.
Fresh meats, fish and poultry that aren't breaded, batter-coated or marinated.
Fruits.
Lentils.
Most dairy products, unless they make your symptoms worse.
Nuts.
Potatoes.
Vegetables.
Wine and distilled liquors, ciders and spirits.
Grains and starches allowed in a gluten-free diet include:
Amaranth.
Buckwheat.
Corn.
Cornmeal.
Gluten-free flours (rice, soy, corn, potato, bean).
Pure corn tortillas.
Quinoa.
Rice.
Tapioca.
Wild rice.
Symptoms=The symptoms of celiac disease can vary greatly. They also may be different in children and adults. Digestive symptoms for adults include:
Diarrhea.
Fatigue.
Weight loss.
Bloating and gas.
Abdominal pain.
Nausea and vomiting.
Constipation.
However, more than half the adults with celiac disease have symptoms that are not related to the digestive system, including:
Anemia, usually from iron deficiency due to decreased iron absorption.
Loss of bone density, called osteoporosis, or softening of bones, called osteomalacia.
Itchy, blistery skin rash, called dermatitis herpetiformis.
Mouth ulcers.
Headaches and fatigue.
Nervous system injury, including numbness and tingling in the feet and hands, possible problems with balance, and cognitive impairment.
Joint pain.
Reduced functioning of the spleen, known as hyposplenism.
Elevated liver enzymes.
Children
Children with celiac disease are more likely than adults to have digestive problems, including:
Nausea and vomiting.
Chronic diarrhea.
Swollen belly.
Constipation.
Gas.
Pale, foul-smelling stools.
The inability to absorb nutrients might result in:
Failure to thrive for infants.
Damage to tooth enamel.
Weight loss.
Anemia.
Irritability.
Short stature.
Delayed puberty.
Neurological symptoms, including attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), learning disabilities, headaches, lack of muscle coordination and seizures.
Dermatitis herpetiformis
Gluten intolerance can cause this blistery skin disease. The rash usually occurs on the elbows, knees, torso, scalp or buttocks. This condition is often associated with changes to the lining of the small intestine identical to those of celiac disease, but the skin condition might not cause digestive symptoms.
Health care professionals treat dermatitis herpetiformis with a gluten-free diet or medicine, or both, to control the rash.
Risk Factors
Celiac disease tends to be more common in people who have:
A family member with celiac disease or dermatitis herpetiformis.
Type 1 diabetes.
Down syndrome, William syndrome or Turner syndrome.
Autoimmune thyroid disease.
Microscopic colitis.
Addison's disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/49/ds00319_im04515_mcdc7_celiac_diseasethu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Cellulite
Home Remedies
Self-care can help improve the look of your skin.
Medicated creams. Applying 0.3% retinol cream has been shown to improve the appearance of cellulite. Retinol helps thicken skin, which reduces the dimpling. Such products are applied once or twice a day. Any effect from a retinol cream won't be noticeable for six months or longer.
Weight loss. If you're carrying extra weight, losing pounds and toning muscles may help improve the look of dimpled skin.
Physical activity. Activities that tone muscles may help improve the appearance of dimpled skin. They also help with circulation and lymphatic drainage. Find one or more activities that you enjoy and can fit into your routine, such as yoga, Pilates, swimming, walking, biking, stair climbing and dancing.
Symptoms=Cellulite looks like dimpled or bumpy skin. It's sometimes described as having a cottage cheese or orange peel texture.
You can see mild cellulite only if you pinch your skin in an area where you have cellulite, such as your thighs. Cellulite that is more severe makes the skin appear rumpled and bumpy with areas of peaks and valleys.
Cellulite is most common around the thighs and buttocks, but it can also be found on the breasts, lower abdomen and upper arms.
Risk Factors
Cellulite is much more common in women than in men. In fact, most women develop some cellulite after puberty. This is because women's fat is typically distributed in the thighs, hips and buttocks — common areas for cellulite. Cellulite is also more common with aging, when the skin loses elasticity. Weight gain can make cellulite more noticeable, but some lean people have cellulite, as well. It tends to run in families, so genetics might play the biggest role in whether you develop cellulite. An inactive lifestyle also can increase your chances of having cellulite, as can pregnancy.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chemo brain
Home Remedies
You can take steps to ease chemo brain symptoms on your own. For instance, try to:
Control what you can about your working environment. If noise and commotion are contributing to your distraction, try to find a quiet place where you can concentrate. Consider earplugs or noise-cancelling headphones. Soft music may help drown out other noises.
Prepare yourself for success. Before tackling a complicated task that requires concentration, take steps to ensure that you will have the best chance for success. Eat so you won't be distracted by hunger. Pick a time of day when you'll be the most alert. Get a good night's sleep. Have a plan so you know exactly what you'll need to do in order to complete your task.
Stay organized. Use calendars or planners to keep on task. That way you won't spend time wondering if you're forgetting an appointment or an item on your to-do list. Write everything down in your planner. Make organization a priority at home and at work, too. Having an organized work space means you can spend more time on tasks that you need to accomplish.
Clear your mind of distractions. When distracting thoughts pop up, write them down in your planner. Recording your thoughts will help to quickly clear them and ensure that you remember them later.
Take frequent breaks. Divide your tasks into manageable portions and take a break each time you complete one part. Give yourself a short rest so that you'll be able to continue later.
Exercise your brain. Try crossword puzzles or number games to exercise your brain. Take up a new hobby or master a new skill, such as learning to play a musical instrument or learning a language.
Exercise your body. Moderate exercise, such as brisk walking, can help you cope with stress, fatigue and depression. All can contribute to memory problems. If you haven't been active lately, get the OK from your doctor first.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of chemo brain may include the following:
Being unusually disorganized
Confusion
Difficulty concentrating
Difficulty finding the right word
Difficulty learning new skills
Difficulty multitasking
Feeling of mental fogginess
Short attention span
Short-term memory problems
Taking longer than usual to complete routine tasks
Trouble with verbal memory, such as remembering a conversation
Trouble with visual memory, such as recalling an image or list of words
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of memory problems in cancer survivors include:
Brain cancer
Cancer that spreads (metastasizes) to the brain
Higher doses of chemotherapy or radiation
Radiation therapy to the brain
Younger age at time of cancer diagnosis and treatment
Increasing age
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chickenpox
Home Remedies
To help ease the symptoms of mild chickenpox, you can follow these self-care tips.
Try not to scratch
Scratching the skin can cause scarring and slow healing. It also can raise the risk that the sores will get infected. If your child can't stop scratching, trim your child's fingernails. It also may help to put gloves on a child's hands, especially at night.
Relieve the itch and other symptoms
The chickenpox rash can be very itchy, and broken blisters called vesicles sometimes sting. For relief of these and other symptoms, you can try:
A cool bath with added baking soda, aluminum acetate or uncooked oatmeal. Or you could add colloidal oatmeal, a finely ground oatmeal that is made for soaking.
Calamine lotion dabbed on the itchy spots.
A soft, bland diet if chickenpox sores form in the mouth.
Antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) for itching. But ask your provider if your child can safely take antihistamines.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) for a mild fever.
Call your provider if a fever lasts longer than four days and is higher than 102 F (38.9 C). And don't give aspirin to children and teenagers who have chickenpox. This can lead to a serious medical problem called Reye's syndrome.
Talk with your provider before you give any type of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), to someone who has chickenpox. Some studies suggest this type of medicine may lead to skin infections or tissue damage.
Symptoms=The rash caused by chickenpox appears 10 to 21 days after you're exposed to the varicella-zoster virus. The rash often lasts about 5 to 10 days. Other symptoms that may appear 1 to 2 days before the rash include:
Fever.
Loss of appetite.
Headache.
Tiredness and a general feeling of being unwell.
Once the chickenpox rash appears, it goes through three phases:
Raised bumps called papules, which break out over a few days.
Small fluid-filled blisters called vesicles, which form in about one day and then break and leak.
Crusts and scabs, which cover the broken blisters and take a few more days to heal.
New bumps keep showing up for several days. So you may have bumps, blisters and scabs at the same time. You can spread the virus to other people for up to 48 hours before the rash appears. And the virus stays contagious until all broken blisters have crusted over.
The disease is by and large mild in healthy children. But sometimes, the rash can cover the whole body. Blisters may form in the throat and eyes. They also may form in tissue that lines the inside of the urethra, anus and vagina.
Risk Factors
Your risk of getting infected with the virus that causes chickenpox is higher if you haven't already had chickenpox or if you haven't had the chickenpox vaccine. It's extra important for people who work in child care or school settings to be vaccinated.
Most people who have had chickenpox or have gotten the vaccine are immune to chickenpox. If you've been vaccinated and still get chickenpox, symptoms are often milder. You may have fewer blisters and mild or no fever. A few people can get chickenpox more than once, but this is rare.
Prevention
The chickenpox vaccine, also called the varicella vaccine, is the best way to prevent chickenpox. In the United States, experts from the CDC report that two doses of the vaccine prevent illness over 90% of the time. Even if you get chickenpox after receiving the vaccine, your symptoms may be much milder.
In the United States, two chickenpox vaccines are licensed for use: Varivax contains only the chickenpox vaccine. It can be used in the United States to vaccinate people age 1 or older. ProQuad combines the chickenpox vaccine with the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. It can be used in the United States for children ages 1 to 12. This is also called the MMRV vaccine.
In the United States, children receive two doses of the varicella vaccine: the first between ages 12 and 15 months and the second between ages 4 and 6 years. This is part of the routine vaccination schedule for children.
For some children between the ages of 12 and 23 months, the MMRV combination vaccine may raise the risk of fever and seizure from the vaccine. Ask your child's health care provider about the pros and cons of using the combined vaccines.
Children 7 to 12 years old who haven't been vaccinated should receive two doses of the varicella vaccine. The doses should be given at least three months apart.
People age 13 or older who haven't been vaccinated should receive two catch-up doses of the vaccine at least four weeks apart. It's even more important to get the vaccine if you have a higher risk of getting exposed to chickenpox. This includes health care workers, teachers, child-care employees, international travelers, military personnel, adults who live with young children and all nonpregnant women of childbearing age.
If you don't remember whether you've had chickenpox or the vaccine, your provider can give you a blood test to find out.
Other chickenpox vaccines are offered outside the United States. Talk to your health care provider for more information on how well they prevent chickenpox.
Do not get the chickenpox vaccine if you're pregnant. If you decide to get vaccinated before pregnancy, don't try to get pregnant during the series of shots or for one month after the last dose of the vaccine.
Other people also shouldn't get the vaccine, or they should wait. Check with your health care provider about whether you should get the vaccine if you:
Have a weaker immune system. This includes people who have HIV or take medicines that have an effect on the immune system.
Are allergic to gelatin or the antibiotic neomycin.
Have any kind of cancer or are getting cancer treatment with radiation or medicines.
Recently received blood from a donor or other blood products.
Talk to your provider if you're not sure whether you need the vaccine. If you plan on getting pregnant, ask your provider if you're up to date on your vaccines.
Is it safe and effective?
Parents often wonder whether vaccines are safe. Since the chickenpox vaccine became available, studies have found that it's safe and it works well. Side effects are often mild. They include pain, redness, soreness and swelling at the site of the shot. Rarely, you might get a rash at the site or a fever.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chilblains
Home Remedies
Chilblains symptoms usually clear up in 2 or 3 weeks after cold exposure. In the meantime, try the following tips to ease your symptoms:
Rewarm the skin slowly and gently, without massaging, rubbing or applying direct heat.
Avoid cold exposure whenever possible.
Keep the affected skin dry and warm, but away from sources of heat.
Apply lotion to alleviate itching, such as hydrocortisone cream available in drugstores.
Keep any blisters and sores clean and covered.
Avoid scratching the affected skin.
If you smoke, try to quit, as smoking can narrow your blood vessels and slow wound healing.
Symptoms=Symptoms of chilblains include:
Small, itchy areas on your skin, often on your feet or hands.
Sores or blistering.
Swelling.
Pain or stinging.
Changes in skin color.
Risk Factors
The following factors increase the risk of chilblains:
Wearing clothing and shoes that are tight or expose skin to the cold. Wearing tightfitting clothing and shoes in cold, damp weather may make you more susceptible to chilblains.
Being a young woman. This condition is most common in females between the ages of 15 and 30.
Being underweight. This condition is most common in people with a low body mass.
Living in cold, humid areas. Your risk of chilblains is higher if you live in an area with high humidity and cold but not freezing temperatures.
Having certain medical conditions. These include Raynaud's phenomenon, connective tissue disease and SARS-CoV-2.
Prevention
To prevent chilblains:
Avoid or limit your exposure to the cold.
When you come in from the cold, rewarm the skin gradually.
Dress in layers of loose clothing and wear mittens, a scarf and a hat, and warm, water-resistant footwear.
Cover all exposed skin as completely as possible when going outside in cold weather.
Keep your hands, feet and face dry and warm.
Keep your home and workplace comfortably warm.
Don't smoke.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/09/59/ds01091_im00273_ans7_chilblainsthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Childhood apraxia of speech
Home Remedies
You and your family can work with your child at home. Home practice, in addition to your child's speech therapy sessions, may help your child's progress.
Encourage and support your child as your child practices speech and language skills. Your child is likely to feel good about making improvements in speech with your support.
Be mindful of giving your child rests from therapy, as well. If your child has physical or occupational therapy along with speech therapy, schedule the sessions so that your child doesn't become too tired.
Symptoms=Children with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) may have a variety of speech symptoms. Symptoms vary depending on a child's age and the severity of the speech problems.
CAS can result in:
Babbling less or making fewer vocal sounds than is typical between the ages of 7 to 12 months.
Speaking first words late, typically after ages 12 to 18 months old.
Using a limited number of consonants and vowels.
Often leaving out sounds when speaking.
Using speech that is hard to understand.
These symptoms are usually noticed between ages 18 months and 2 years. Symptoms at this age may indicate suspected CAS. Suspected CAS means a child may potentially have this speech disorder. The child's speech development should be watched to determine if therapy should begin.
Children usually produce more speech between ages 2 and 4. Signs that may indicate CAS include:
Vowel and consonant distortions.
Pauses between syllables or words.
Voicing errors, such as "pie" sounding like "bye."
Many children with CAS have trouble getting their jaws, lips and tongues to the correct positions to make a sound. They also may have a hard time moving smoothly to the next sound.
Many children with CAS also have language problems, such as reduced vocabulary or trouble with word order.
Some symptoms may be unique to children with CAS, which helps to make a diagnosis. However, some symptoms of CAS are also symptoms of other types of speech or language disorders. It's hard to diagnose CAS if a child has only symptoms that are found both in CAS and in other disorders.
Some characteristics, sometimes called markers, help distinguish CAS from other types of speech disorders. Those associated with CAS include:
Trouble moving smoothly from one sound, syllable or word to another.
Groping movements with the jaw, lips or tongue to try to make the correct movement for speech sounds.
Vowel distortions, such as trying to use the correct vowel but saying it incorrectly.
Using the wrong stress in a word, such as pronouncing "banana" as "BUH-nan-uh" instead of "buh-NAN-uh."
Using equal emphasis on all syllables, such as saying "BUH-NAN-UH."
Separation of syllables, such as putting a pause or gap between syllables.
Inconsistency, such as making different errors when trying to say the same word a second time.
Having a hard time imitating simple words.
Voicing errors, such as saying "down" instead of "town."
Other speech disorders sometimes confused with CAS
Some speech sound disorders often get confused with CAS because some of the symptoms may overlap. These speech sound disorders include articulation disorders, phonological disorders and dysarthria.
A child with an articulation or phonological disorder has trouble learning how to make and use specific sounds. Unlike in CAS, the child doesn't have trouble planning or coordinating the movements to speak. Articulation and phonological disorders are more common than CAS.
Articulation or phonological speech errors may include:
Substituting sounds. The child might say "fum" instead of "thumb," "wabbit" instead of "rabbit" or "tup" instead of "cup."
Leaving out final consonants. A child with CAS might say "duh" instead of "duck" or "uh" instead of "up."
Stopping the airstream. The child might say "tun" instead of "sun" or "doo" instead of "zoo."
Simplifying sound combinations. The child might say "ting" instead of "string" or "fog" instead of "frog."
Dysarthria is a speech disorder that occurs because the speech muscles are weak. Making speech sounds is hard because the speech muscles can't move as far, as quickly or as strongly as they do during typical speech. People with dysarthria may also have a hoarse, soft or even strained voice. Or they may have slurred or slow speech.
Dysarthria is often easier to identify than CAS. However, when dysarthria is caused by damage to areas of the brain that affect coordination, it can be hard to determine the differences between CAS and dysarthria.
Request an appointment

Causes
Childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) has a number of possible causes. But often a cause can't be determined. There usually isn't an observable problem in the brain of a child with CAS.
However, CAS can be the result of brain conditions or injury. These may include a stroke, infections or traumatic brain injury.
CAS also may occur as a symptom of a genetic disorder, syndrome or metabolic condition.
CAS is sometimes referred to as developmental apraxia. But children with CAS don't make typical developmental sound errors and they don't grow out of CAS. This is unlike children with delayed speech or developmental disorders who typically follow patterns in speech and sounds development but at a slower pace than usual.
Risk factors
Changes in the FOXP2 gene appear to increase the risk of childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) and other speech and language disorders. The FOXP2 gene may be involved in how certain nerves and pathways in the brain develop. Researchers continue to study how changes in the FOXP2 gene may affect motor coordination and speech and language processing in the brain. Other genes also may impact motor speech development.
Complications
Many children with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) have other problems that affect their ability to communicate. These problems aren't due to CAS, but they may be seen along with CAS.
Symptoms or problems that are often present along with CAS include:
Delayed language. This may include trouble understanding speech, reduced vocabulary, or not using correct grammar when putting words together in a phrase or sentence.
Delays in intellectual and motor development and problems with reading, spelling and writing.
Trouble with gross and fine motor movement skills or coordination.
Trouble using communication in social interactions.
Prevention
Diagnosing and treating childhood apraxia of speech at an early stage may reduce the risk of long-term persistence of the problem. If your child experiences speech problems, have a speech-language pathologist evaluate your child as soon as you notice any speech problems.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Changes in the FOXP2 gene appear to increase the risk of childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) and other speech and language disorders. The FOXP2 gene may be involved in how certain nerves and pathways in the brain develop. Researchers continue to study how changes in the FOXP2 gene may affect motor coordination and speech and language processing in the brain. Other genes also may impact motor speech development.
Prevention
Diagnosing and treating childhood apraxia of speech at an early stage may reduce the risk of long-term persistence of the problem. If your child experiences speech problems, have a speech-language pathologist evaluate your child as soon as you notice any speech problems.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Childhood schizophrenia
Home Remedies
Although childhood schizophrenia requires professional treatment, it's critical to be an active participant in your child's care. Here are ways to get the most out of the treatment plan.
Follow directions for medications. Try to make sure that your child takes medications as prescribed, even if he or she is feeling well and has no current symptoms. If medications are stopped or taken infrequently, the symptoms are likely to come back and your doctor will have a hard time knowing what the best and safest dose is.
Check first before taking other medications. Contact the doctor who's treating your child for schizophrenia before your child takes medications prescribed by another doctor or before taking any over-the-counter medications, vitamins, minerals, herbs or other supplements. These can interact with schizophrenia medications.
Pay attention to warning signs. You and your child may have identified things that may trigger symptoms, cause a relapse or prevent your child from carrying out daily activities. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your child's doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms, to prevent the situation from worsening.
Make physical activity and healthy eating a priority. Some medications for schizophrenia are associated with an increased risk of weight gain and high cholesterol in children. Work with your child's doctor to make a nutrition and physical activity plan for your child that will help manage weight and benefit heart health.
Avoid alcohol, recreational drugs and nicotine. Alcohol, recreational drugs and nicotine can worsen schizophrenia symptoms or interfere with antipsychotic medications. Talk to your child about avoiding drugs and alcohol and not smoking. If necessary, get appropriate treatment for a substance use problem.
Symptoms=Schizophrenia involves a range of problems with thinking, behavior or emotions. Signs and symptoms may vary, but usually involve delusions, hallucinations or disorganized speech, and reflect an impaired ability to function. The effect can be disabling.
In most people with schizophrenia, symptoms generally start in the mid- to late 20s, though it can start later, up to the mid-30s. Schizophrenia is considered early onset when it starts before the age of 18. Onset of schizophrenia in children younger than age 13 is extremely rare.
Symptoms can vary in type and severity over time, with periods of worsening and remission of symptoms. Some symptoms may always be present. Schizophrenia can be difficult to recognize in the early phases.
Early signs and symptoms
Schizophrenia signs and symptoms in children and teenagers are similar to those in adults, but the condition may be more difficult to recognize in this age group.
Early signs and symptoms may include problems with thinking, behavior and emotions.
Thinking:
Problems with thinking and reasoning
Bizarre ideas or speech
Confusing dreams or television for reality
Behavior:
Withdrawal from friends and family
Trouble sleeping
Lack of motivation — for example, showing up as a drop in performance at school
Not meeting daily expectations, such as bathing or dressing
Bizarre behavior
Violent or aggressive behavior or agitation
Recreational drug or nicotine use
Emotions:
Irritability or depressed mood
Lack of emotion, or emotions inappropriate for the situation
Strange anxieties and fears
Excessive suspicion of others
Later signs and symptoms
As children with schizophrenia age, more typical signs and symptoms of the disorder begin to appear. Signs and symptoms may include:
Delusions. These are false beliefs that are not based in reality. For example, you think that you're being harmed or harassed; that certain gestures or comments are directed at you; that you have exceptional ability or fame; that another person is in love with you; or that a major catastrophe is about to occur. Delusions occur in most people with schizophrenia.
Hallucinations. These usually involve seeing or hearing things that don't exist. Yet for the person with schizophrenia, hallucinations have the full force and impact of a normal experience. Hallucinations can be in any of the senses, but hearing voices is the most common hallucination.
Disorganized thinking. Disorganized thinking is inferred from disorganized speech. Effective communication can be impaired, and answers to questions may be partially or completely unrelated. Rarely, speech may include putting together meaningless words that can't be understood, sometimes known as word salad.
Extremely disorganized or abnormal motor behavior. This may show in several ways, from childlike silliness to unpredictable agitation. Behavior is not focused on a goal, which makes it hard to do tasks. Behavior can include resistance to instructions, inappropriate or bizarre posture, a complete lack of response, or useless and excessive movement.
Negative symptoms. This refers to reduced or lack of ability to function normally. For example, the person may neglect personal hygiene or appear to lack emotion — doesn't make eye contact, doesn't change facial expressions, speaks in a monotone, or doesn't add hand or head movements that normally occur when speaking. Also, the person may avoid people and activities or lack the ability to experience pleasure.
Compared with schizophrenia symptoms in adults, children and teens may be:
Less likely to have delusions
More likely to have visual hallucinations
Symptoms may be difficult to interpret
When childhood schizophrenia begins early in life, symptoms may build up gradually. Early signs and symptoms may be so vague that you can't recognize what's wrong. Some early signs can be mistaken for typical development during early teen years, or they could be symptoms of other mental or physical conditions.
As time goes on, signs may become more severe and more noticeable. Eventually, your child may develop the symptoms of psychosis, including hallucinations, delusions and difficulty organizing thoughts. As thoughts become more disorganized, there's often a "break from reality" (psychosis) frequently requiring hospitalization and treatment with medication.
Risk Factors
Although the precise cause of schizophrenia isn't known, certain factors seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering schizophrenia, including:
Having a family history of schizophrenia
Increased immune system activation, such as from inflammation
Older age of the father
Some pregnancy and birth complications, such as malnutrition or exposure to toxins or viruses that may impact brain development
Taking mind-altering (psychoactive) drugs during teen years
Prevention
Early identification and treatment may help get symptoms of childhood schizophrenia under control before serious complications develop. Early treatment is also crucial in helping limit psychotic episodes, which can be extremely frightening to a child and his or her parents. Ongoing treatment can help improve your child's long-term outlook.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cholestasis of pregnancy
Home Remedies
Home remedies may not offer much relief for itching due to cholestasis of pregnancy. But it doesn't hurt to try these soothing tips:
Cool baths, which may make the itching feel less intense
Oatmeal baths, creams or lotions, which may soothe the skin
Icing a particularly itchy patch of skin, which may briefly reduce the itch
Symptoms=Intense itching is the main symptom of cholestasis of pregnancy. But there is no rash. Typically, you feel itchy on the palms of your hands or the soles of your feet, but you may feel itchy everywhere. The itching is often worse at night and may bother you so much that you can't sleep.
The itching is most common during the third trimester of pregnancy but sometimes begins earlier. It may feel worse as your due date gets near. But once your baby arrives, the itchiness usually goes away within a few days.
Other less common signs and symptoms of cholestasis of pregnancy may include:
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice
Nausea
Loss of appetite
Oily, foul-smelling stools
Risk Factors
Some factors that may increase your risk of developing cholestasis of pregnancy include:
Personal or family history of cholestasis of pregnancy
History of liver damage or disease, including hepatitis C and gallbladder stones
Being pregnant with multiple babies
Pregnancy at an older age, such as 35 years or older
If you have a history of cholestasis in a prior pregnancy, your risk of developing it during another pregnancy is high. About 60% to 70% of females have it happen again. This is called a recurrence. In severe cases, the risk of recurrence may be as high as 90%.
Prevention
There is no known way to prevent cholestasis of pregnancy.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chronic cough
Home Remedies
Follow the plan your doctor gives you for treating the cause of your cough. In the meantime, you can also try these tips to ease your cough:
Drink fluids. Liquid helps thin the mucus in your throat. Warm liquids, such as broth, tea or juice, can soothe your throat.
Suck on cough drops or hard candies. They may ease a dry cough and soothe an irritated throat.
Consider taking honey. A teaspoon of honey may help loosen a cough. Don't give honey to children younger than 1 year old because honey can contain bacteria harmful to infants.
Moisturize the air. Use a cool-mist humidifier or take a steamy shower.
Avoid tobacco smoke. Smoking or breathing secondhand smoke irritates your lungs and can worsen coughs caused by other factors. If you smoke, talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit.
Symptoms=A chronic cough can occur with other signs and symptoms, which may include:
A runny or stuffy nose
A feeling of liquid running down the back of your throat (postnasal drip)
Frequent throat clearing and sore throat
Hoarseness
Wheezing and shortness of breath
Heartburn or a sour taste in your mouth
In rare cases, coughing up blood
Risk Factors
Being a current or former smoker is one of the leading risk factors for chronic cough. Frequent exposure to secondhand smoke also can lead to coughing and lung damage.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chronic kidney disease
Home Remedies
As part of your treatment for chronic kidney disease, your doctor might recommend a special diet to help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian who can analyze your diet and suggest ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Depending on your situation, kidney function and overall health, dietary recommendations might include the following:
Avoid products with added salt. Lower the amount of sodium you eat each day by avoiding products with added salt, including many convenience foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Choose lower potassium foods. High-potassium foods include bananas, oranges, potatoes, spinach and tomatoes. Examples of low-potassium foods include apples, cabbage, carrots, green beans, grapes and strawberries. Be aware that many salt substitutes contain potassium, so you generally should avoid them if you have kidney failure.
Limit the amount of protein you eat. Your registered dietitian will estimate how many grams of protein you need each day and make recommendations based on that amount. High-protein foods include lean meats, eggs, milk, cheese and beans. Low-protein foods include vegetables, fruits, breads and cereals.
More Information
Chronic kidney disease care at Mayo Clinic
Eating right for chronic kidney disease
Renal diet for vegetarians
Show more related information
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of chronic kidney disease develop over time if kidney damage progresses slowly. Loss of kidney function can cause a buildup of fluid or body waste or electrolyte problems. Depending on how severe it is, loss of kidney function can cause:
Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Fatigue and weakness
Sleep problems
Urinating more or less
Decreased mental sharpness
Muscle cramps
Swelling of feet and ankles
Dry, itchy skin
High blood pressure (hypertension) that's difficult to control
Shortness of breath, if fluid builds up in the lungs
Chest pain, if fluid builds up around the lining of the heart
Signs and symptoms of kidney disease are often nonspecific. This means they can also be caused by other illnesses. Because your kidneys are able to make up for lost function, you might not develop signs and symptoms until irreversible damage has occurred.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of chronic kidney disease include:
Diabetes
High blood pressure
Heart (cardiovascular) disease
Smoking
Obesity
Being Black, Native American or Asian American
Family history of kidney disease
Abnormal kidney structure
Older age
Frequent use of medications that can damage the kidneys
Prevention
To reduce your risk of developing kidney disease:
Follow instructions on over-the-counter medications. When using nonprescription pain relievers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), follow the instructions on the package. Taking too many pain relievers for a long time could lead to kidney damage.
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're at a healthy weight, maintain it by being physically active most days of the week. If you need to lose weight, talk with your doctor about strategies for healthy weight loss.
Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking can damage your kidneys and make existing kidney damage worse. If you're a smoker, talk to your doctor about strategies for quitting. Support groups, counseling and medications can all help you to stop.
Manage your medical conditions with your doctor's help. If you have diseases or conditions that increase your risk of kidney disease, work with your doctor to control them. Ask your doctor about tests to look for signs of kidney damage.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chronic myelogenous leukemia
Home Remedies
For many people, chronic myelogenous leukemia is a disease they will live with for years. Many will continue treatment with targeted therapy indefinitely. Some days, you may feel sick even if you don't look sick. And some days, you may just be sick of having cancer. Try these self-care measures to help you adjust and cope with a chronic illness:
Talk to your health care provider about your side effects. Powerful cancer medicines can cause many side effects. Those side effects often can be managed with other medicines or treatments. You don't have to handle them without help.
Don't stop treatment on your own. If you develop side effects, such as skin rashes or fatigue, don't quit your medicines without talking to your health care provider. Likewise, don't stop taking your medicines if you feel better and think your disease may be gone. If you stop taking medicines, your disease can quickly return, even if you've been in remission.
Ask for help if you're having trouble coping. Having a chronic condition can be emotionally overwhelming. Tell your provider about your feelings. Ask for a referral to a counselor or another specialist with whom you can talk.
Symptoms=Chronic myelogenous leukemia often doesn't cause symptoms. It might be detected during a blood test.
When they occur, symptoms may include:
Bone pain.
Bleeding easily.
Feeling full after eating a small amount of food.
Fatigue.
Fever.
Weight loss without trying.
Loss of appetite.
Pain or fullness below the ribs on the left side.
Excessive sweating during sleep.
Blurry vision caused by bleeding in the back of the eye.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase the risk of chronic myelogenous leukemia include:
Older age. CML is more common in older people than in children and teens.
Being male. Men are slightly more at risk of developing CML than are women.
Radiation exposure. Radiation therapy for certain types of cancer has been linked to CML.
There's no way to prevent chronic myelogenous leukemia. If you get it, there's nothing you could have done to prevent it.
Family history is not a risk factor
The gene change that leads to chronic myelogenous leukemia isn't passed from parents to children. This change is believed to develop after birth.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chronic pelvic pain
Home Remedies
Long-term pain can have a major impact on your daily life. When you're in pain, you may have trouble sleeping, exercising or doing everyday tasks.
Long-term pain also can cause anxiety and stress. And these might make your pain worse.
Relaxation techniques such as meditation and deep breathing may help you get some relief. They can help release tension, ease pain, calm emotions and help you fall asleep.
Other lifestyle changes also may help ease chronic pelvic pain:
Practice good posture.
Lose extra weight. This may lower the risk of straining joints and muscles in the pelvis.
Get regular exercise. Do an activity you enjoy, and pace yourself. Talk to your doctor first if working out causes pain.
Symptoms=You may feel chronic pelvic pain in different parts of your pelvic area, rather than in just one spot. You might describe the pain in one or more of the following ways:
Serious and steady.
Pain that comes and goes.
Dull aching.
Sharp pains or cramping.
Pressure or heaviness deep within the pelvis.
The pain also may happen:
During sex.
While having a bowel movement or urinating.
When you sit or stand for a long time.
Chronic pelvic pain may be mild. Or it may be so intense that you miss work and can't sleep or exercise.
Other symptoms can include:
An urgent or frequent need to urinate.
Bloating.
Upset stomach.
Constipation or diarrhea.
Risk Factors
Many conditions are linked to chronic pelvic pain. Having more than one condition that causes pelvic pain, such as endometriosis and fibroids, raises the risk. A history of sexual or physical abuse also may raise the risk.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Chronic sinusitis
Home Remedies
Neti pot
Enlarge image
These self-help steps can help ease sinusitis symptoms:
Rest. Rest helps the body fight infection and speed recovery.
Drink fluids. Keep drinking plenty of fluids.
Use a warm compress. A warm compress on the nose and forehead might help ease pressure in the sinuses.
Keep sinuses moist. Put a towel over your head while breathing in the vapor from a bowl of hot water. Or take a hot shower, breathing in the warm, moist air. This will help ease pain and help mucus drain.
Symptoms=Common symptoms of chronic sinusitis include:
Thick, discolored mucus from the nose, known as a runny nose.
Mucus down the back of the throat, known as postnasal drip.
Blocked or stuffy nose, known as congestion. This makes it hard to breathe through the nose.
Pain, tenderness and swelling around the eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead.
Reduced sense of smell and taste.
Other symptoms can include:
Ear pain.
Headache.
Aching in the teeth.
Cough.
Sore throat.
Bad breath.
Tiredness.
Chronic sinusitis and acute sinusitis have similar symptoms. But acute sinusitis is a short-lived infection of the sinuses often linked to a cold.
The symptoms of chronic sinusitis last at least 12 weeks. There might be many bouts of acute sinusitis before it becomes chronic sinusitis. Fever isn't common with chronic sinusitis. But fever might be part of acute sinusitis.
Risk Factors
The following factors raise the risk of getting chronic sinusitis:
A dental infection.
A fungal infection.
Regularly being around cigarette smoke or other pollutants.
Prevention
Take these steps to lower the risk of getting chronic sinusitis:
Protect your health. Try to stay away from people who have colds or other infections. Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially before meals.
Manage allergies. Work with your health care provider to keep symptoms under control. Stay away from things you're allergic to when possible.
Avoid cigarette smoke and polluted air. Tobacco smoke and other pollutants can irritate the lungs and inside the nose, called the nasal passages.
Use a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, adding moisture to the air with a humidifier may help prevent sinusitis. Be sure the humidifier stays clean and free of mold with regular, complete cleaning.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2016/06/28/08/41/mcdc7_chronic_sinusitis-8col.jpg
Condition
Cirrhosis
Home Remedies
If you have cirrhosis, be careful to limit additional liver damage:
Don't drink alcohol. Whether your cirrhosis was caused by chronic alcohol use or another disease, don't drink alcohol. Drinking alcohol may cause further liver damage.
Eat a low-sodium diet. Excess salt can cause your body to retain fluids, worsening swelling in your abdomen and legs. Use herbs for seasoning your food, rather than salt. Choose prepared foods that are low in sodium.
Eat a healthy diet. People with cirrhosis can experience malnutrition. Combat this with a healthy diet that includes a variety of fruits and vegetables. Choose lean protein, such as legumes, poultry or fish. Don't eat raw seafood.
Protect yourself from infections. Cirrhosis makes it more difficult for you to fight off infections. Protect yourself by avoiding people who are sick and washing your hands frequently. Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B, influenza, and pneumonia.
Use over-the-counter medicines carefully. Cirrhosis makes it more difficult for your liver to process medicines. For this reason, ask your provider before taking any medicines, including nonprescription ones. Don't take aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others). If you have liver damage, your provider may recommend that you not take acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or take it in low doses for pain relief.
Symptoms=The liver
Enlarge image
Cirrhosis often has no symptoms until liver damage is severe. When symptoms do occur, they may include:
Fatigue.
Easily bleeding or bruising.
Loss of appetite.
Nausea.
Swelling in the legs, feet or ankles, called edema.
Weight loss.
Itchy skin.
Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Fluid accumulation in the abdomen, called ascites (uh-SAHY-teez).
Spiderlike blood vessels on the skin.
Redness in the palms of the hands.
Pale fingernails, especially the thumb and index finger.
Clubbing of the fingers, in which the fingertips spread out and become rounder than usual.
For women, absence of or loss of periods not related to menopause.
For men, loss of sex drive, testicular shrinkage or breast enlargement, known as gynecomastia.
Confusion, drowsiness or slurred speech.
Risk Factors
Drinking too much alcohol. Excessive alcohol consumption is a risk factor for cirrhosis.
Being overweight. Being obese increases your risk of conditions that may lead to cirrhosis, such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
Having viral hepatitis. Not everyone with chronic hepatitis will develop cirrhosis, but it's one of the world's leading causes of liver disease.
Prevention
Lower your risk of cirrhosis by taking these steps to care for your liver:
Do not drink alcohol if you have cirrhosis. If you have liver disease, you should not drink alcohol.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a diet that's full of fruits and vegetables. Select whole grains and lean sources of protein. Cut down on the amount of fatty and fried foods you eat.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much body fat can damage your liver. Talk to your health care provider about a weight-loss plan if you are obese or overweight.
Reduce your risk of hepatitis. Sharing needles and having unprotected sex can increase your risk of hepatitis B and C. Ask your provider about hepatitis vaccinations.
If you're concerned about your risk of liver cirrhosis, talk to your health care provider about ways you can reduce your risk.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cluster headache
Home Remedies
To avoid a cluster headache attack during a cluster period, try the following:
Stick to a regular sleep schedule. During a cluster period, don't change when and how long you sleep. Sleep changes can trigger cluster headaches.
Avoid alcohol. Drinking alcohol, including beer and wine, can trigger a headache during a cluster period.
Symptoms=Common symptoms
Cluster headache
Enlarge image
A cluster headache strikes quickly. There's usually no warning. But some people might first have migraine-like nausea and aura. Common symptoms during a cluster headache include:
Extreme sharp or stabbing pain, usually in, behind or around one eye. The pain can spread to other areas of the face, head and neck.
Pain on one side of the head in a single cluster. Pain can switch to the other side in another cluster.
Restlessness.
A lot of tears.
Redness of the eye on the side that hurts.
Stuffy or runny nose on the side that hurts.
Forehead or facial sweating.
Skin color changes on the side of the face that hurts.
Swelling around the eye on the side that hurts.
Drooping eyelid on the side that hurts.
Because the pain of a cluster headache can be so bad, those who have one are likely to pace or sit and rock back and forth.
Cluster periods
A cluster period usually lasts for several weeks to months. Each cluster period may start at about the same time of year and last about the same length of time. For example, cluster periods can come during certain seasons, such as every spring or every fall.
For most people with cluster headaches, the cluster period lasts from one week to a year. Then there's a pain-free period, known as remission, for three months or longer before the next cluster headache comes. This is known as episodic cluster headache.
Cluster periods might go on for more than a year. Pain-free periods might last less than one month. If a cluster period lasts a year without letup, it's called chronic cluster headache.
During a cluster period:
Headaches usually come every day, often several times a day.
A single attack can last from 15 minutes to three hours, but more often lasts 30 to 45 minutes.
The attacks often occur at the same time each day.
Most attacks occur at night, usually 1 to 2 hours after bedtime.
The pain usually ends as suddenly as it begins. After attacks, most people are pain-free but exhausted.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for cluster headache include:
Sex. Men are more likely to have cluster headaches than women are.
Age. Most people who develop cluster headaches are between ages 20 and 50. But the condition can start at any age.
Smoking. Many people who get cluster headaches are smokers. But quitting smoking usually doesn't stop the headaches.
Alcohol use. If you have cluster headaches, drinking alcohol during a cluster period may increase the risk of an attack.
Family history. Having a parent, brother or sister who has cluster headache might increase the risk.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Coarctation of the aorta
Home Remedies
People who had coarctation of the aorta need to take steps to control blood pressure and watch for complications. Follow these tips:
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise helps lower blood pressure. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you. Some physical activities, such as weight lifting, can temporarily raise blood pressure.
Talk with your healthcare team before getting pregnant. Coarctation of the aorta, even after it's fixed, may increase the risk of an aortic tear or rupture during pregnancy and childbirth. Before becoming pregnant, talk with a doctor trained in congenital heart diseases, called an adult congenital cardiologist. Together you can go over the possible risks and complications.
Prevent heart infections. Bacteria can affect the inner lining of the heart or valves, causing an infection called endocarditis. People with some heart conditions may need to take antibiotics before dental work to prevent this infection. Ask your healthcare professional whether you need preventive antibiotics.
Symptoms=Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta depend on how much of the aorta is narrowed. Most people don't have symptoms.
Adults and older children with mild coarctation of the aorta may not have symptoms and their hearts may seem healthy.
If a baby is born with an extreme narrowing of the aorta, symptoms may be noticed shortly after birth. Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta in infants include:
Difficulty breathing.
Difficulty feeding.
Heavy sweating.
Irritability.
Changes in skin color.
Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta later in life may include:
Chest pain.
High blood pressure.
Headaches.
Muscle weakness.
Leg cramps.
Cold feet.
Nosebleeds.
Coarctation of the aorta often occurs with other heart conditions present at birth. Other symptoms depend on the specific types of congenital heart defects.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for coarctation of the aorta include:
Male sex.
Some genetic conditions, such as Turner syndrome.
Some heart conditions present at birth, called congenital heart defects.
Congenital heart defects associated with coarctation of the aorta include:
Bicuspid aortic valve. The aortic valve is between the body's main artery and the lower left heart chamber. If the aortic valve has only two flaps, called cusps, instead of the usual three, it's called a bicuspid valve.
Subaortic stenosis. This is a narrowing of the area below the aortic valve. It blocks blood flow from the lower left heart chamber to the aorta.
Patent ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus is a blood vessel that connects the left lung artery to the aorta. When a baby is growing in the womb, this vessel lets blood go around the lungs. Shortly after birth, the ductus arteriosus usually closes. If it stays open, the opening is called a patent ductus arteriosus.
Holes in the heart. Some people with coarctation of the aorta also are born with a hole in the heart. If the hole is between the upper heart chambers, it is called an atrial septal defect. A hole between the lower heart chambers is called a ventricular septal defect.
Congenital mitral valve stenosis. This is a type of heart valve disease that some people are born with. The valve between the upper and lower left heart chambers is narrowed. It's harder for blood to move through the valve.
Prevention
There's no known way to prevent coarctation of the aorta. Tell your healthcare team if you have a family history of heart conditions present at birth.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/45/ds00616_im02584_mcdc7_coarctationoftheaorta_jpg.jpg
Condition
Cold
Home Remedies
Rest and stay hydrated.Drink warm fluids, such as herbal tea with honey.Gargle salt water to soothe a sore throat.Use a humidifier to ease congestion.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cold sore
Home Remedies
The cold sore ointment docosanol (Abreva) may shorten the healing time of a cold sore. At the first sign of symptoms, apply it to the affected skin as directed on the package. Use a cotton-tipped swab to put medicine on a cold sore. This helps prevent the spread of the sores to other parts of the body.
To ease the discomfort of a cold sore:
Try other cold sore remedies. Some nonprescription products contain a drying agent, such as alcohol, that may speed healing.
Use lip balms and cream. Protect your lips from the sun with a zinc oxide cream or lip balm with sunblock. If your lips become dry, apply a moisturizing cream.
Apply a compress. A cold, damp cloth may ease symptoms and help remove crusting. Or try using a warm cloth on the blisters to ease pain.
Rest and try pain relievers. Take nonprescription pain medicine if you have a fever or the cold sore is painful. Creams with lidocaine or benzocaine may offer some pain relief.
Symptoms=A cold sore usually passes through several stages:
Tingling and itching. Many people feel itching, burning or tingling around the lips for a day or so before a small, hard, painful spot appears and blisters form.
Blisters. Small fluid-filled blisters often form along the border of the lips. Sometimes they appear around the nose or cheeks or inside the mouth.
Oozing and crusting. The small blisters may merge and then burst. This can leave shallow open sores that ooze and crust over.
Symptoms vary, depending on whether this is your first outbreak or a recurrence. The first time you have a cold sore, symptoms may not start for up to 20 days after you were first exposed to the virus. The sores can last several days. And the blisters can take 2 to 3 weeks to heal completely. If blisters return, they'll often appear at the same spot each time and tend to be less severe than the first outbreak.
In a first-time outbreak, you also might experience:
Fever.
Painful gums.
Sore throat.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Swollen lymph nodes.
Children under 5 years old may have cold sores inside their mouths. These sores are often mistaken for canker sores. Canker sores involve only the mucous membrane and aren't caused by the herpes simplex virus.
Risk Factors
Almost everyone is at risk of cold sores. Most adults carry the virus that causes cold sores, even if they've never had symptoms.
You're most at risk of complications from the virus if you have a weak immune system from conditions and treatments such as:
HIV/AIDS.
Atopic dermatitis (eczema).
Cancer chemotherapy.
Anti-rejection medicine for organ transplants.
Prevention
Your health care provider may prescribe an antiviral medicine for you to take on a regular basis if you develop cold sores more than nine times a year or if you're at high risk of serious complications. If sunlight seems to trigger your condition, apply sunblock to the spot where the cold sore tends to form. Or talk with your health care provider about using an oral antiviral medicine before you do an activity that tends to cause a cold sore to return.
Take these steps to help avoid spreading cold sores to other people:
Avoid kissing and skin contact with people while blisters are present. The virus spreads most easily when the blisters leak fluid.
Avoid sharing items. Utensils, towels, lip balm and other personal items can spread the virus when blisters are present.
Keep your hands clean. When you have a cold sore, wash your hands carefully before touching yourself and other people, especially babies.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Color blindness
Home Remedies
Try the following tips to help you work around your color blindness.
Memorize the order of colored objects. If it's important to know individual colors, such as with traffic lights, memorize the order of the colors.
Label colored items that you want to match with other items. Have someone with good color vision help you sort and label your clothing. Arrange your clothes in your closet or drawers so that colors that can be worn together are near each other.
Use technology. There are apps for phones and digital devices that can help you identify colors.
Symptoms=You may have a color vision deficiency and not know it. Some people figure out that they or their child has the condition when it causes confusion — such as when there are problems differentiating the colors in a traffic light or interpreting color-coded learning materials.
People affected by color blindness may not be able to distinguish:
Different shades of red and green
Different shades of blue and yellow
Any colors
The most common color deficiency is an inability to see some shades of red and green. Often, a person who is red-green or blue-yellow deficient isn't completely insensitive to both colors. Defects can be mild, moderate or severe.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Common cold
Home Remedies
To make yourself as comfortable as possible when you have a cold, try these tips:
Drink plenty of fluids. Water, juice, clear broth or warm lemon water are good choices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can increase fluid loss.
Sip warm liquids. Chicken soup, tea, warm apple juice or other warm liquids can soothe a sore throat and loosen a stuffy nose. Honey may help coughs in adults and children who are older than age 1. Try it in hot tea. Do not give honey to children younger than 1 year old because of the risk of an illness called infant botulism.
Rest. Rest as much as possible. Stay home from work or school if you have a fever or a bad cough. Do not go out if you are drowsy after taking medicine.
Adjust your room's temperature and humidity. Keep your room warm, but not overheated. If the air is dry, a cool-mist humidifier can help with stuffiness and coughing. Clean your humidifier as directed to prevent the growth of bacteria and molds.
Use a saltwater gargle. A saltwater gargle of 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon (1250 to 2500 milligrams) of table salt in 4 to 8 fluid ounces (120 to 240 milliliters) of warm water can help soothe a sore throat. Gargle the solution and then spit it out. Most children younger than 6 years aren't able to gargle properly.
Try other throat soothers. Use ice chips, lozenges or hard candy to soothe a sore throat. Use caution when giving lozenges or hard candy to children because they can choke on them. Don't give lozenges or hard candy to children younger than 6 years.
Try saline nasal drops or sprays. Saline nasal drops or sprays can keep nasal passages moist and loosen mucus.
Use a suction bulb for younger children. In infants and younger children, apply saline nasal drops, wait for a short period and then use a suction bulb to draw mucus out of each nostril. Insert the bulb syringe about 1/4 to 1/2 inch (6 to 12 millimeters).
More Information
Cold remedies
Humidifiers
Neti pot: Can it clear my nose?
Show more related information
Symptoms=Most often, common cold symptoms start 1 to 3 days after someone is exposed to a cold virus. Symptoms vary. They can include:
Runny or stuffy nose.
Sore or scratchy throat.
Cough.
Sneezing.
Generally feeling unwell.
Slight body aches or a mild headache.
Low-grade fever.
The mucus from your nose may start out clear and become thicker and yellow or green. This change is normal. Most often, it doesn't mean that you have a bacterial illness.
Risk Factors
These factors can increase the chances of getting a cold:
Age. Infants and young children have a greater risk of colds than other people, especially if they spend time in child care settings.
Weakened immune system. Having a long-term illness or weakened immune system increases your risk.
Time of year. Both children and adults are more likely to get colds in fall and winter.
Smoking. Smoking or being around secondhand smoke increases the risk of catching a cold.
Exposure. Being in crowds, such as at school or on an airplane, increases the chance of getting a cold.
Prevention
There's no vaccine for the common cold. You can take these steps to slow the spread of the virus and prevent illness:
Wash your hands. Wash your hands well and often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water aren't available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Teach your children the importance of hand-washing. Try not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.
Clean and disinfect. Clean and disinfect surfaces that are touched often. These include doorknobs, light switches, electronics, and kitchen and bathroom countertops. This is especially important when someone in your family has a cold. Wash children's toys often.
Cover your cough. Sneeze and cough into tissues. Throw away used tissues right away, and then wash your hands. If you don't have a tissue, sneeze or cough into the bend of your elbow, and then wash your hands.
Don't share. Don't share drinking glasses or silverware with other family members.
Stay away from people with colds. Avoid close contact with anyone who has a cold. Stay out of crowds when possible. Try not to touch your eyes, nose and mouth when you're in crowds.
Review your child care center's policies. Look for a child care setting with good hygiene practices and clear policies about keeping sick children at home.
Take care of yourself. Eat well, exercise and get plenty of sleep to help you stay healthy.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Congenital heart defects in children
Home Remedies
If your child has a congenital heart defect, lifestyle changes may be recommended to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications.
Sports and activity restrictions. Some children with a congenital heart defect may need to reduce exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Your child's care professional can tell you which sports and types of exercise are safe for your child.
Preventive antibiotics. Some congenital heart defects can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves, called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures to prevent infection, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve. Ask your child's heart doctor if your child needs preventive antibiotics.
Symptoms=Serious congenital heart defects usually are found soon after birth or during the first few months of life. Symptoms could include:
Pale gray or blue lips, tongue, or fingernails. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Rapid breathing.
Swelling in the legs, belly or areas around the eyes.
Shortness of breath during feedings, leading to poor weight gain.
Less-serious congenital heart defects may not be found until later in childhood. Symptoms of congenital heart defects in older children may include:
Easily getting short of breath during exercise or activity.
Getting tired very easily during exercise or activity.
Fainting during exercise or activity.
Swelling in the hands, ankles or feet.
Risk Factors
Most congenital heart defects result from changes that occur early as the baby's heart is developing before birth. The exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown. But some risk factors have been identified.
Risk factors for congenital heart defects include:
Rubella, also called German measles. Having rubella during pregnancy can cause changes in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Diabetes. Careful control of blood sugar before and during pregnancy can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby. Diabetes that develops during pregnancy is called gestational diabetes. It generally doesn't increase a baby's risk of heart defects.
Some medicines. Taking certain medicines during pregnancy can cause congenital heart disease and other health problems present at birth. Medicines linked to congenital heart defects include lithium (Lithobid) for bipolar disorder and isotretinoin (Claravis, Myorisan, others), which is used to treat acne. Always tell your healthcare team about the medicines you take.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Genetics. Congenital heart defects appear to run in families, which means they are inherited. Changes in genes have been linked to heart problems present at birth. For instance, people with Down syndrome are often born with heart conditions.
Prevention
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these conditions. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
There are some steps you can take to help reduce your child's overall risk of heart problems present at birth such as:
Get proper prenatal care. Regular checkups with a healthcare professional during pregnancy can help keep mom and baby healthy.
Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to prevent harmful changes in the baby's brain and spinal cord. It also may help reduce the risk of congenital heart defects as well.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get a rubella vaccine. Also called German measles, having rubella during pregnancy may affect a baby's heart development. Get vaccinated before trying to get pregnant.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects.
Manage chronic health conditions. If you have other health conditions, talk to your healthcare professional about the best way to treat and manage them.
Avoid harmful substances. During pregnancy, have someone else do any painting and cleaning with strong-smelling products.
Tell your care team about your medicines. Some medicines can cause congenital heart defects and other health conditions present at birth. Tell your care team about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Congenital heart disease in adults
Home Remedies
If you have congenital heart disease, lifestyle changes may be recommended to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications.
Symptoms=Some people born with a heart problem don't notice symptoms until later in life. Symptoms also may return years after a congenital heart defect is treated.
Common congenital heart disease symptoms in adults include:
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Blue or gray skin, lips and fingernails due to low oxygen levels. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Shortness of breath.
Feeling tired very quickly with activity.
Swelling due to fluid collecting inside body tissues, called edema.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for congenital heart disease include:
Genetics. Congenital heart disease appears to run in families, which means it is inherited. Changes in genes have been linked to heart problems present at birth. For instance, people with Down syndrome are often born with heart conditions.
German measles, also called rubella. Having rubella during pregnancy may affect how the baby's heart grows while in the womb. A blood test done before pregnancy can find out if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Diabetes. Having type 1 or type 2 diabetes during pregnancy also may change how the baby's heart grows while in the womb. Gestational diabetes generally doesn't increase the risk of congenital heart disease.
Medicines. Taking certain medicines during pregnancy can cause congenital heart disease and other health problems present at birth. Medicines linked to congenital heart defects include lithium (Lithobid) for bipolar disorder and isotretinoin (Claravis, Myorisan, others), which is used to treat acne. Always tell your healthcare team about the medicines you take.
Alcohol. Drinking alcohol while pregnant has been linked to heart conditions in the baby.
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Prevention
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart disease is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these heart conditions. Some types of congenital heart disease occur in families. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Constipation
Home Remedies
Increase fiber intake with fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.Drink plenty of water.Exercise regularly.Prunes or prune juice as a natural laxative.
Symptoms=Symptoms of constipation include:
Fewer than three stools a week.
Hard, dry or lumpy stools.
Straining or pain when passing stools.
A feeling that not all stool has passed.
A feeling that the rectum is blocked.
The need to use a finger to pass stool.
Chronic constipation is having two or more of these symptoms for three months or longer.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of chronic constipation include:
Being an older adult
Being a woman
Getting little or no physical activity
Having a mental health condition such as depression or an eating disorder
Prevention
The following tips can help you avoid developing constipation.
Eat lots of high-fiber foods, including vegetables, fruits, beans and whole-grain foods.
Eat fewer foods with low amounts of fiber such as processed foods, dairy and meats.
Drink plenty of fluids.
Stay active and exercise regularly.
Don't ignore the urge to pass stool.
Create a regular schedule for passing stool, especially after a meal.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Contact dermatitis
Home Remedies
To help reduce itching and soothe inflamed skin, try these self-care approaches:
Avoid the irritant or allergen. The key to this is identifying what's causing your rash and staying away from it. Your health care provider may give you a list of products that typically contain the substance that affects you. Also ask for a list of products that are free of the substance that affects you.
Apply an anti-itch cream or ointment. Put on the itchy area 1% hydrocortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10, others). This is a nonprescription product that you can buy at a drugstore. Use it 1 to 2 times a day for a few days. Or try calamine lotion. Whatever product you use, try cooling it in the refrigerator before applying.
Take an anti-itch drug. An oral antihistamine, such as diphenhydramine (Advil PM, Benadryl, others), which may also help you sleep better. A nonprescription antihistamine that won't make you so drowsy is loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Apply cool, wet compresses. Place a cool, wet cloth over the rash for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day.
Protect your skin. Avoid scratching. Trim your nails. If you can't keep from scratching an itchy area, cover it with a dressing. Leave blisters alone. While your skin heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun protection measures.
Soak in a soothing cool bath. Soak the affected area in cool water for 20 minutes. Sprinkle the water an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno).
Protect your hands. Rinse and dry hands well and gently after washing. Use moisturizers throughout the day — on top of any medicated cream you're using. And choose gloves based on what you're protecting your hands from. For example, plastic gloves lined with cotton are good if your hands are often wet.
Symptoms=Contact dermatitis on the face
Enlarge image
Poison ivy blisters
Enlarge image
Contact dermatitis shows up on skin that has been directly exposed to the substance causing the reaction. For example, the rash may show up along a leg that brushed against poison ivy. The rash can develop within minutes to hours of exposure, and it can last 2 to 4 weeks.
Signs and symptoms of contact dermatitis vary widely and may include:
An itchy rash
Leathery patches that are darker than usual (hyperpigmented), typically on brown or Black skin
Dry, cracked, scaly skin, typically on white skin
Bumps and blisters, sometimes with oozing and crusting
Swelling, burning or tenderness
Risk Factors
The risk of contact dermatitis may be higher in people who have certain jobs and hobbies. Examples include:
Agricultural workers
Cleaners
Construction workers
Cooks and others who work with food
Florists
Hair stylists and cosmetologists
Health care workers, including dental workers
Machinists
Mechanics
Scuba divers or swimmers, due to the rubber in face masks or goggles
Prevention
You can take the following steps to help prevent contact dermatitis:
Avoid irritants and allergens. Try to identify and avoid the cause of your rash. For ear and body piercings, use jewelry made of hypoallergenic material, such as surgical steel or gold.
Wash your skin. For poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac, you might be able to remove most of the rash-causing substance if you wash your skin right away after coming into contact with it. Use a mild, fragrance-free soap and warm water. Rinse completely. Also wash any clothing or other items that may have come into contact with a plant allergen, such as poison ivy.
Wear protective clothing or gloves. Face masks, goggles, gloves and other protective items can shield you from irritating substances, including household cleansers.
Apply an iron-on patch to cover metal fasteners next to your skin. This can help you avoid a reaction to jean snaps, for example.
Apply a barrier cream or gel. These products can provide a protective layer for your skin. For example, a nonprescription skin cream containing bentoquatam (Ivy Block) may prevent or lessen your skin's reaction to poison ivy.
Use moisturizer. Regularly applying moisturizing lotions can help restore your skin's outermost layer and keep your skin supple.
Take care around pets. Allergens from plants, such as poison ivy, can cling to pets and then be spread to people. Bathe your pet if you think it got into poison ivy or something similar.
Video: Allergy or irritant: The truth about your rash
Show transcript
for video Video: Allergy or irritant: The truth about your rash
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
COPD
Home Remedies
If you have COPD, you can take steps to feel better and slow the damage to your lungs:
Control your breathing. Talk with your healthcare professional or respiratory therapist about methods for breathing more efficiently throughout the day. Also talk about positions that make breathing easier; ways to conserve your energy, such as sitting for tasks when possible; and ways to relax when you have trouble catching your breath.
Clear your airways. With COPD, mucus tends to collect in air passages and can be hard to clear. Removing mucus with controlled coughing, drinking plenty of water and using a humidifier may help.
Get regular physical activity. It may seem difficult to be active when you have trouble breathing. But regular physical activity and exercise can improve your overall strength and endurance and strengthen the muscles you use to breathe. Talk with your healthcare professional about which activities are best for you.
Eat healthy foods. Eating healthy foods can help you keep your strength. If you're underweight, your healthcare professional may recommend nutritional supplements. If you're overweight, losing weight can greatly help your breathing, especially during physical activities.
Avoid smoke and poor-quality air. In addition to quitting smoking, it's important to avoid places where others smoke. Secondhand smoke may add to lung damage. Air pollution also can irritate your lungs, so check daily air quality forecasts before going out. Identify what may trigger bouts of worsening symptoms so you can avoid them as much as possible.
See your healthcare professional regularly. Keep your appointment schedule, even if you're feeling fine. It's important to regularly monitor your lung function. And be sure to get your annual flu vaccine in the fall to help prevent infections that can worsen your COPD. Ask your healthcare professional about when to get the pneumococcal vaccine, COVID-19 vaccine and RSV vaccine. Call your healthcare professional if your symptoms get worse or you notice symptoms of infection.
Symptoms=COPD symptoms often don't appear until a lot of lung damage has occurred. Symptoms usually worsen over time, especially if smoking or other irritating exposure continues.
Symptoms of COPD may include:
Trouble catching your breath, especially during physical activities.
Wheezing or whistling sounds when breathing.
Ongoing cough that may bring up a lot of mucus. The mucus may be clear, white, yellow or greenish.
Chest tightness or heaviness.
Lack of energy or feeling very tired.
Frequent lung infections.
Losing weight without meaning to. This may happen as the condition worsens.
Swelling in ankles, feet or legs.
People with COPD also are likely to have times when their symptoms become worse than the usual day-to-day variation. This time of worsening symptoms is called an exacerbation (eg-zas-er-bay-shun). Exacerbations can last for several days to weeks. They can be caused by triggers such as smells, cold air, air pollution, colds or infections. Symptoms may include:
Working harder than usual to breathe or having trouble breathing.
Chest tightness.
Coughing more often.
More mucus or changes in mucus color or thickness.
Fever.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for COPD include:
Tobacco smoke. The biggest risk factor for COPD is long-term cigarette smoking. The more years you smoke and the more packs you smoke, the greater your risk. Pipe, cigar and marijuana smoking also may raise your risk. People who breathe in large amounts of secondhand smoke are at risk of COPD too.
Asthma. Asthma is a condition in which the airways narrow and swell and may produce extra mucus. Asthma may be a risk factor for developing COPD. The mix of asthma and smoking raises the risk of COPD even more.
Workplace exposure. Long-term exposure to chemical fumes, smoke, vapors and dusts in the workplace can irritate and cause swelling in the lungs. This can raise the risk of COPD.
Fumes from burning fuel. In the developing world, people exposed to fumes from burning fuel for cooking and heating in homes with poor airflow are at higher risk of COPD.
Genetics. AAT deficiency caused by a gene change passed down in families is the cause of COPD in some people. This genetic form of emphysema is not common. Other genetic factors may make certain people who smoke more likely to get COPD.
Prevention
Unlike some other medical conditions, COPD often has a clear cause and a clear way to prevent it. Most of the time, COPD is directly linked to cigarette smoking. The best way to prevent COPD is to never smoke. If you smoke and have COPD, stopping now can slow how fast the condition worsens.
If you've smoked for a long time, quitting can be hard, especially if you've tried quitting once, twice or many times before. But keep trying to quit. It's critical to find a stop-smoking program that can help you quit for good. It's your best chance for lessening damage to your lungs. Talk with your healthcare professional about options that might work best for you.
Workplace exposure to chemical fumes, vapors and dusts is another risk factor for COPD. If you work with these types of lung irritants, talk with your supervisor about the best ways to protect yourself. This may include wearing equipment that prevents you from breathing in these substances.
Here are some steps you can take to help prevent complications linked with COPD:
Quit smoking to help lower your risk of heart disease and lung cancer.
Get an annual flu vaccination and vaccination against pneumococcal pneumonia to lower your risk of or prevent some infections. Also talk with your doctor or other healthcare professional about when you need the COVID-19 vaccine and the RSV vaccine.
Talk with your healthcare professional or a mental health professional if you feel sad or hopeless or think that you may have depression.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Corns and calluses
Home Remedies
If you have diabetes or another condition that causes poor blood flow, consult your health care provider before treating a corn or callus on your own.
If you have no underlying health problems, try these suggestions to help clear up a corn or callus:
Soak your hands or feet. Soaking corns and calluses in warm, soapy water softens them. This can make it easier to remove the thickened skin.
Thin thickened skin. Once you've softened the affected skin, rub the corn or callus with a pumice stone, nail file, emery board or washcloth. This helps remove a layer of toughened skin. Don't use a sharp object to trim the skin. Don't use a pumice stone if you have diabetes.
Use corn pads. Apply a donut-shaped foam pad to protect the area where a corn or callus formed. Be careful using nonprescription liquid corn removers or medicated corn pads. These contain salicylic acid, which can irritate healthy skin and lead to infection, especially in people with diabetes or other conditions that cause poor blood flow. You can protect healthy skin by applying petroleum jelly (Vaseline) to the area around the corn or callus before using a medicated pad.
Moisturize your skin. Use moisturizer on your hands and feet regularly.
Wear comfortable shoes and socks. Wear well-fitting, cushioned shoes and socks, at least until your corn or callus disappears.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=Corn
Enlarge image
Callus
Enlarge image
Calluses
Enlarge image
Signs and symptoms of corns and calluses include:
A thick, rough area of skin
A hardened, raised bump
Tenderness or pain under the skin
Flaky, dry or waxy skin
Corns and calluses are not the same thing.
Corns are smaller and deeper than calluses and have a hard center surrounded by swollen skin. They can be painful when pressed. Hard corns often form on the top of the toes or the outer edge of the small toe. Soft corns tend to form between the toes.
Calluses are rarely painful and tend to develop on pressure spots, such as the heels, the balls of the feet, the palms and the knees. They may vary in size and shape and are often larger than corns.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for corns and calluses include:
Wearing shoes that increase the pressure or friction on your feet.
Having a condition that increases the pressure or friction on your feet. Examples are hammertoe and hallux valgus, which causes a bunion-like bulge at the base of the big toe.
Inheriting a tendency to develop corns. The type of corn that forms on non-weight-bearing areas, such as the soles and palms (keratosis punctata), might be caused by genetics.
Prevention
These approaches may help you prevent corns and calluses:
Wear shoes that give your toes plenty of room. If you can't wiggle your toes, your shoes are too tight. Have a shoe shop stretch your shoes at any point that rubs or pinches. Shop for shoes when your feet are most swollen, usually at the end of the day. If you use orthotics and inserts, be sure to have them on while fitting your shoes at the store.
Use protective coverings. Wear felt pads, nonmedicated corn pads or bandages over areas that rub against your footwear. You can also try toe separators or some lamb's wool between your toes.
Wear padded gloves when using hand tools. Or try padding your tool handles with cloth tape or covers.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Coronary artery disease
Home Remedies
Making certain lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy and can prevent or slow coronary artery disease. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. Nicotine tightens blood vessels and forces the heart to work harder. Not smoking is one of the best ways to lower the risk of a heart attack. If you need help quitting, talk to your healthcare team.
Eat heart-healthy foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats. Eating one or two servings of fish a week also may help keep the heart healthy.
Get regular exercise. Exercise helps manage weight and control diabetes, cholesterol and blood pressure — all risk factors for coronary artery disease. Try to get 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Ask your healthcare team what amount and type of exercise is best for you.
Keep a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Losing even a small amount of weight can help reduce risk factors for coronary artery disease. Ask your healthcare team what the best weight is for you.
Control blood pressure. Adults should get their blood pressure checked by a healthcare professional at least every two years. You may need to have checks more often if you have a history of high blood pressure. Ask your health professional what blood pressure goal is best for you.
Get your cholesterol checked. Ask your healthcare team how often you need a cholesterol test. Lifestyle changes and medicines may be recommended to control cholesterol.
Check your blood sugar. If you have diabetes, carefully managing your blood sugar can help reduce the risk of coronary artery disease.
Avoid or limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to reduce stress.
Regular health checkups also are important. Some of the main risk factors for coronary artery disease — high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes — have no symptoms in the early stages. Early detection and treatment can help you keep your heart healthy. Also ask about recommended vaccines, such as a yearly flu vaccine.
Symptoms=Symptoms of coronary artery disease happen when the heart doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Coronary artery disease symptoms may include:
Chest pain, called angina. You may feel squeezing, pressure, heaviness, tightness or pain in the chest. It may feel like somebody is standing on your chest. The chest pain usually affects the middle or left side of the chest. Activity or strong emotions can trigger angina. There are different types of angina. The type depends on the cause and whether rest or medicine makes symptoms better. In some people, especially women, the pain may be brief or sharp and felt in the neck, arm or back.
Shortness of breath. You may feel like you can't catch your breath.
Fatigue. If the heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs, you may feel unusually tired.
Symptoms of coronary artery disease may not be noticed at first. Sometimes symptoms only happen when the heart is beating hard, such as during exercise. As the coronary arteries continue to narrow, symptoms can get more severe or frequent.
A completely blocked coronary artery will cause a heart attack. Common heart attack symptoms include:
Chest pain that may feel like pressure, tightness, squeezing or aching.
Pain or discomfort that spreads to the shoulder, arm, back, neck, jaw, teeth or sometimes the upper belly.
Cold sweats.
Fatigue.
Heartburn.
Nausea.
Shortness of breath.
Lightheadedness or sudden dizziness.
Chest pain is usually the most common symptom of heart attack. But for some people, such as women, the elderly and those with diabetes, symptoms may seem unrelated to a heart attack. For example, they may have nausea or a very brief pain in the neck or back. Some people having a heart attack don't notice symptoms.
Risk Factors
Coronary artery disease is common.
Coronary artery disease risk factors you can't control include:
Age. Getting older increases the risk of damaged and narrowed arteries.
Birth sex. Men are generally at greater risk of coronary artery disease. However, the risk for women increases after menopause.
Family history. A family history of heart disease makes you more likely to get coronary artery disease. This is especially true if a parent, brother, sister or child got heart disease at an early age. The risk is highest if your father or a brother had heart disease before age 55 or if your mother or a sister developed it before age 65.
Coronary artery disease risk factors you can control are:
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking is bad for heart health. People who smoke have a much greater risk of heart disease. Breathing in secondhand smoke also increases the risk.
High blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure can make arteries hard and stiff. This can lead to atherosclerosis, which causes coronary artery disease.
Cholesterol. Too much "bad" cholesterol in the blood can increase the risk of atherosclerosis. "Bad" cholesterol is called low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Not enough "good" cholesterol, called high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, also leads to atherosclerosis.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease share some risk factors, such as obesity and high blood pressure.
Obesity. Too much body fat is bad for overall health. Obesity can lead to type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure. Ask your healthcare team what a healthy weight is for you.
Chronic kidney disease. Having long-term kidney disease increases the risk of coronary artery disease.
Not getting enough exercise. Physical activity is important for good health. A lack of exercise is linked to coronary artery disease and some of its risk factors.
A lot of stress. Emotional stress may damage the arteries and worsen other risk factors for coronary artery disease.
Unhealthy diet. Eating foods with a lot of saturated fat, trans fat, salt and sugar can increase the risk of coronary artery disease.
Alcohol use. Heavy alcohol use can lead to heart muscle damage. It also can worsen other risk factors of coronary artery disease.
Amount of sleep. Too little sleep and too much sleep both have been linked to an increased risk of heart disease.
Risk factors often happen together. One risk factor may trigger another. When grouped together, some risk factors make you even more likely to develop coronary artery disease. For example, metabolic syndrome is a group of conditions that includes high blood pressure, high blood sugar, too much body fat around the waist and high triglyceride levels. Metabolic syndrome increases the risk of coronary artery disease.
Other possible risk factors for coronary artery disease may include:
Breathing pauses during sleep, called obstructive sleep apnea. This condition causes breathing to stop and start during sleep. It can cause sudden drops in blood oxygen levels. The heart must work harder to pump blood. Blood pressure goes up.
Increased high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). This protein appears in higher than usual amounts when there's inflammation somewhere in the body. High hs-CRP levels may be a risk factor for heart disease. It's thought that as coronary arteries narrow, the level of hs-CRP in the blood goes up.
High triglycerides. This is a type of fat in the blood. High levels may raise the risk of coronary artery disease, especially for women.
High levels of homocysteine. Homocysteine is a substance that the body uses to make protein and to build and maintain tissue. But high levels of homocysteine may raise the risk of coronary artery disease.
Preeclampsia. This pregnancy complication causes high blood pressure and increased protein in the urine. It can lead to a higher risk of heart disease later in life.
Other pregnancy complications. Diabetes or high blood pressure during pregnancy are known risk factors for coronary artery disease.
Certain autoimmune diseases. People who have conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus have an increased risk of atherosclerosis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Home Remedies
If you have COVID-19, it's important to get plenty of rest, drink fluids and keep an eye on your symptoms. Medicines you can get without a prescription can help manage pain, fever or cough.
If you have COVID-19 and are staying separate from others, try to keep busy and help your body clear out the infection. Some things that might help are:
Eat healthy meals.
Get enough sleep.
Relaxation exercises.
Do activities you enjoy.
Connect with friends and family, such as with phone or video calls.
People who have COVID-19 or care for someone with the illness may feel new or worse symptoms of stress, depression and anxiety. If you or a loved one need help with managing the stress of illness, isolation or caregiving, contact your healthcare professional. Consider asking for a referral to a mental health professional.
Related information
COVID-19 and your mental health
Symptoms=Typical COVID-19 symptoms often show up 2 to 14 days after contact with the virus.
Symptoms can include:
Dry cough.
Shortness of breath.
Loss of taste or smell.
Extreme tiredness, called fatigue.
Digestive symptoms such as upset stomach, vomiting or loose stools, called diarrhea.
Pain, such as headaches and body or muscle aches.
Fever or chills.
Cold-like symptoms such as congestion, runny nose or sore throat.
People may only have a few symptoms or none. People who have no symptoms but test positive for COVID-19 are called asymptomatic. For example, many children who test positive don't have symptoms of COVID-19 illness. People who go on to have symptoms are considered presymptomatic. Both groups can still spread COVID-19 to others.
Some people may have symptoms that get worse about 7 to 14 days after symptoms start.
Most people with COVID-19 have mild to moderate symptoms. But COVID-19 can cause serious medical complications and lead to death. Older adults or people who already have medical conditions are at greater risk of serious illness.
COVID-19 may be a mild, moderate, severe or critical illness.
In broad terms, mild COVID-19 doesn't affect the ability of the lungs to get oxygen to the body.
In moderate COVID-19 illness, the lungs also work properly but there are signs that the infection is deep in the lungs.
Severe COVID-19 means that the lungs don't work correctly, and the person needs oxygen and other medical help in the hospital.
Critical COVID-19 illness means the lung and breathing system, called the respiratory system, has failed and there is damage throughout the body.
Rarely, people who catch the coronavirus can develop a group of symptoms linked to inflamed organs or tissues. The illness is called multisystem inflammatory syndrome. When children have this illness, it is called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children, shortened to MIS-C. In adults, the name is MIS-A.
Risk Factors
The main risk factors for COVID-19 are:
If someone you live with has COVID-19.
If you spend time in places with poor air flow and a higher number of people when the virus is spreading.
If you spend more than 30 minutes in close contact with someone who has COVID-19.
Many factors affect your risk of catching the virus that causes COVID-19. How long you are in contact, if the space has good air flow and your activities all affect the risk. Also, if you or others wear masks, if someone has COVID-19 symptoms and how close you are affects your risk. Close contact includes sitting and talking next to one another, for example, or sharing a car or bedroom.
It seems to be rare for people to catch the virus that causes COVID-19 from an infected surface. While the virus is shed in waste, called stool, COVID-19 infection from places such as a public bathroom is not common.
Serious COVID-19 illness risk factors
Some people are at a higher risk of serious COVID-19 illness than others. This includes people age 65 and older as well as babies younger than 6 months. Those age groups have the highest risk of needing hospital care for COVID-19.
Not every risk factor for serious COVID-19 illness is known. People of all ages who have no other medical issues have needed hospital care for COVID-19.
Known risk factors for serious illness include people who have not gotten a COVID-19 vaccine. Serious illness also is a higher risk for people who have:
Sickle cell disease or thalassemia.
Serious heart diseases and possibly high blood pressure.
Chronic kidney, liver or lung diseases.
People with dementia or Alzheimer's also are at higher risk, as are people with brain and nervous system conditions such as stroke. Smoking increases the risk of serious COVID-19 illness. And people with a body mass index in the overweight category or obese category may have a higher risk as well.
Other medical conditions that may raise the risk of serious illness from COVID-19 include:
Cancer or a history of cancer.
Type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
Weakened immune system from solid organ transplants or bone marrow transplants, some medicines, or HIV.
Pregnancy.
This list is not complete. Factors linked to a health issue may raise the risk of serious COVID-19 illness too. Examples are a medical condition where people live in a group home, or lack of access to medical care. Also, people with more than one health issue, or people of older age who also have health issues have a higher chance of severe illness.
Related information
COVID-19: Who's at higher risk of serious symptoms? - Related information
COVID-19: Who's at higher risk of serious symptoms?
Prevention
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends a COVID-19 vaccine for everyone age 6 months and older. The COVID-19 vaccine can lower the risk of death or serious illness caused by COVID-19.
The COVID-19 vaccines available in the United States are:
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 6 months and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
Children ages 6 months up to age 4 years are up to date after three doses of the 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. If a child has had one dose of a previous Pfizer-BioNTech COVID vaccine, two doses of the 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine will bring the child up to date. If a child had two doses previously, one dose of the 2024-2025 formula will bring the child up to date.
People age 5 and older are up to date with one 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.
Moderna COVID-19 vaccine 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 6 months and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
Children ages 6 months up to age 4 are up to date if they've had two doses of a 2024-2025 Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. If a child has had previous Moderna COVID vaccines, one dose of the 2024-2025 vaccine will bring the child up to date.
People age 5 and older are up to date with one 2024-2025 Moderna COVID-19 vaccine.
Novavax COVID-19 vaccine, adjuvanted 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 12 years and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
People age 12 years and older are up to date if they've had one dose of a 2024-2025 Novavax COVID-19 vaccine.
In general, people age 5 and older with typical immune systems can get any vaccine approved or authorized for their age. They usually don't need to get the same vaccine each time.
Some people should get all their vaccine doses from the same vaccine maker, including:
Children ages 6 months to 4 years.
People age 5 years and older with weakened immune systems.
People age 12 and older who have had one shot of the Novavax vaccine should get the second Novavax shot in the two-dose series.
Talk to your healthcare professional if you have any questions about the vaccines for you or your child. Your healthcare team can help you if:
The vaccine you or your child got earlier isn't available.
You don't know which vaccine you or your child received.
You or your child started a vaccine series but couldn't finish it due to side effects.
People with weakened immune systems
Your healthcare team may suggest added doses of COVID-19 vaccine if you have a moderately or seriously weakened immune system. The FDA has also authorized the monoclonal antibody pemivibart (Pemgarda) to prevent COVID-19 in some people with weakened immune systems.
Control the spread of infection
In addition to vaccination, there are other ways to stop the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
If you are at a higher risk of serious illness, talk to your healthcare professional about how best to protect yourself. Know what to do if you get sick so you can quickly start treatment.
If you feel ill or have COVID-19, stay home and away from others, including pets, if possible. Avoid sharing household items such as dishes or towels if you're sick.
In general, make it a habit to:
Test for COVID-19. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 test for the infection. Or test five days after you came in contact with the virus.
Help from afar. Avoid close contact with anyone who is sick or has symptoms, if possible.
Wash your hands. Wash your hands well and often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Cough or sneeze into a tissue or your elbow. Then wash your hands.
Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces. For example, clean doorknobs, light switches, electronics and counters regularly.
Try to spread out in crowded public areas, especially in places with poor airflow. This is important if you have a higher risk of serious illness.
The CDC recommends that people wear a mask in indoor public spaces if you're in an area with a high number of people with COVID-19 in the hospital. They suggest wearing the most protective mask possible that you'll wear regularly, that fits well and is comfortable.
Related information
COVID-19 vaccines: Get the facts - Related information
COVID-19 vaccines: Get the facts
Comparing the differences between COVID-19 vaccines - Related information
Comparing the differences between COVID-19 vaccines
Different types of COVID-19 vaccines: How they work - Related information
Different types of COVID-19 vaccines: How they work
Debunking COVID-19 myths - Related information
Debunking COVID-19 myths
Travel and COVID-19
Travel brings people together from areas where illnesses may be at higher levels. Masks can help slow the spread of respiratory diseases in general, including COVID-19. Masks help the most in places with low air flow and where you are in close contact with other people. Also, masks can help if the places you travel to or through have a high level of illness.
Masking is especially important if you or a companion have a high risk of serious illness from COVID-19.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cough
Home Remedies
Honey and warm tea or lemon water.Gargling with salt water.Ginger tea to reduce throat irritation.Steamy showers to ease chest congestion.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cradle cap
Home Remedies
The following home care tips may help you control the symptoms of cradle cap:
Gently rub your baby's scalp with your fingers or a washcloth to loosen the scales. Don't scratch.
Wash your baby's hair once a day with baby shampoo. Loosen the scales with a small, soft-bristled brush or fine-toothed comb before rinsing off the shampoo.
If the scales don't loosen easily, rub petroleum jelly or a few drops of mineral oil onto your baby's scalp. Let it soak into the scales for a few minutes, or hours if needed. Then brush and shampoo the hair as usual. Be sure to rinse well. If you leave in the oil, the cradle cap may get worse.
When the scales are gone, wash your baby's hair two or three times a week with a mild shampoo to prevent scale buildup.
Symptoms=Common symptoms of cradle cap include:
Patchy scaling or thick crusts on the scalp.
Oily or dry skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales.
Skin flakes.
Mild inflammation.
Similar scales also may be present on the ears, eyelids, nose and groin.
Cradle cap is common in newborns. It usually isn't itchy.
Cradle cap is the common term for infantile seborrheic dermatitis. It's sometimes confused with another skin condition, atopic dermatitis. A major difference between these conditions is that atopic dermatitis can be very itchy.
Risk Factors
Cradle cap is very common in babies. There are no known risk factors for it.
Prevention
Shampooing your baby's hair every few days can help prevent cradle cap. Use a baby shampoo unless your baby's doctor or other health care professional suggests a stronger product.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
Shampooing your baby's hair every few days can help prevent cradle cap. Use a baby shampoo unless your baby's doctor or other health care professional suggests a stronger product.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Crohn's disease
Home Remedies
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing Crohn's disease. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
Diet
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to track what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating them.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help to manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant — that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of fluids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Consider multivitamins. Because Crohn's disease can interfere with your ability to absorb nutrients and because your diet may be limited, multivitamin and mineral supplements are often helpful. Check with your doctor before taking any vitamins or supplements.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Smoking
Smoking increases your risk of developing Crohn's disease. And once you have Crohn's disease, smoking can make it worse. People with Crohn's disease who smoke are more likely to have relapses and need medications and repeat surgeries. Quitting smoking can improve the overall health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Stress
Although stress doesn't cause Crohn's disease, it can make your signs and symptoms worse and may trigger flare-ups. Although it's not always possible to avoid stress, you can learn ways to help manage it, such as:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and normalize bowel function. Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique may help you decrease muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. One way to cope with stress is to regularly relax and use techniques such as deep, slow breathing to calm down. You can take classes in yoga and meditation or use books, CDs or DVDs at home.
More Information
Crohn's disease care at Mayo Clinic
Crohn's disease and the gut microbiome
Staying active with Crohn's disease
Show more related information
Symptoms=Digestive system
Enlarge image
In Crohn's disease, any part of your small or large intestine can be involved. It may involve multiple segments, or it may be continuous. In some people, the disease is only in the colon, which is part of the large intestine.
Signs and symptoms of Crohn's disease can range from mild to severe. They usually develop gradually, but sometimes will come on suddenly, without warning. You may also have periods of time when you have no signs or symptoms (remission).
When the disease is active, symptoms typically include:
Diarrhea
Fever
Fatigue
Abdominal pain and cramping
Blood in your stool
Mouth sores
Reduced appetite and weight loss
Pain or drainage near or around the anus due to inflammation from a tunnel into the skin (fistula)
Other signs and symptoms
People with severe Crohn's disease may also experience symptoms outside of the intestinal tract, including:
Inflammation of skin, eyes and joints
Inflammation of the liver or bile ducts
Kidney stones
Iron deficiency (anemia)
Delayed growth or sexual development, in children
Risk Factors
Risk factors for Crohn's disease may include:
Age. Crohn's disease can occur at any age, but you're likely to develop the condition when you're young. Most people who develop Crohn's disease are diagnosed before they're around 30 years old.
Ethnicity. Although Crohn's disease can affect any ethnic group, whites have the highest risk, especially people of Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish descent. However, the incidence of Crohn's disease is increasing among Black people who live in North America and the United Kingdom. Crohn's disease is also being increasingly seen in the Middle Eastern population and among migrants to the United States.
Family history. You're at higher risk if you have a first-degree relative, such as a parent, sibling or child, with the disease. As many as 1 in 5 people with Crohn's disease has a family member with the disease.
Cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoking is the most important controllable risk factor for developing Crohn's disease. Smoking also leads to more-severe disease and a greater risk of having surgery. If you smoke, it's important to stop.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve), diclofenac sodium and others. While they do not cause Crohn's disease, they can lead to inflammation of the bowel that makes Crohn's disease worse.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cryoglobulinemia
Home Remedies
If you have cryoglobulinemia, it's important to stay out of cold temperatures. Protect your fingers and toes. You may want to wear gloves when using the freezer or refrigerator. Check your feet daily for sores. Cryoglobulinemia can make it harder for foot damage to heal.
Symptoms=Some people have no symptoms of cryoglobulinemia. For people who have symptoms, the symptoms might come and go. They can include:
Skin spots. Most people with cryoglobulinemia get purple skin spots, called lesions, on their legs. On Black or brown skin, the spots might look black or brown. Some people also get open leg sores, called ulcers.
Joint pain. Symptoms like those of rheumatoid arthritis are common in cryoglobulinemia.
Peripheral neuropathy. Cryoglobulinemia can damage the nerves at the tips of the fingers and toes. This causes numbness and other problems.
Causes
It's not clear what causes cryoglobulinemia. It's been linked to:
Infections. Hepatitis C is the most common infection linked to cryoglobulinemia. Others include hepatitis B, HIV, Epstein-Barr, toxoplasmosis and malaria.
Certain cancers. Some cancers of the blood, such as multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, can cause cryoglobulinemia.
Autoimmune diseases. Disease in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues by mistake, called autoimmune, increases the risk of getting cryoglobulinemia. Examples are lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren syndrome.
Risk factors
Risk factors of cryoglobulinemia may include:
Sex. Cryoglobulinemia happens more often in women than in men.
Age. Symptoms of cryoglobulinemia most often begin in middle age.
Other diseases. Cryoglobulinemia is linked with diseases such as hepatitis C, HIV, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, lupus and Sjogren syndrome.
Complications
Cryoglobulinemia can affect the kidneys. The main symptoms are protein or blood in the urine. High blood pressure most often goes with the kidney symptoms. In time, kidney failure might happen.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Risk factors of cryoglobulinemia may include:
Sex. Cryoglobulinemia happens more often in women than in men.
Age. Symptoms of cryoglobulinemia most often begin in middle age.
Other diseases. Cryoglobulinemia is linked with diseases such as hepatitis C, HIV, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, lupus and Sjogren syndrome.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cushing syndrome
Home Remedies
Recovering from Cushing syndrome is usually a slow, gradual process. It can take time before you start to feel better. These tips may help you on your journey back to health.
Increase activities slowly. Work up to a comfortable level of exercise or activity without overdoing it. Don't do activities that could cause you to get hurt, such as high-impact exercise. With patience and consistency, you'll improve little by little over time.
Eat sensibly. Nutritious foods are a good source of fuel for your body during recovery. They also can help you lose any weight you gained from Cushing syndrome. Make sure you're getting enough calcium and vitamin D. Taken together, they help your body absorb calcium, which may strengthen your bones. This can counteract the bone density loss caused by Cushing syndrome.
Keep an eye on your mental health. Depression can be a side effect of Cushing syndrome, but it also can continue or start after treatment begins. Don't ignore depression or wait it out. Seek help quickly from your health care provider or a therapist if you're depressed, overwhelmed or having trouble coping during your recovery.
Gently soothe aches and pains. Hot baths, massages and low-impact exercises, such as water aerobics and tai chi, can help reduce some of the muscle and joint pain that happens during Cushing syndrome recovery.
Symptoms=Symptoms of Cushing syndrome can vary depending on the level of extra cortisol.
Common symptoms of Cushing syndrome
Weight gain in the trunk, with thin arms and legs.
Weight gain in the face. This is sometimes called moon face.
A fatty lump between the shoulders. This may be referred to as a buffalo hump.
Pink or purple stretch marks on the stomach, hips, thighs, breasts and underarms.
Thin, frail skin that bruises easily.
Slow wound healing.
Acne.
Symptoms women with Cushing syndrome may experience
Thick, dark hair on the face and body. This condition is called hirsutism.
Periods that are irregular or that stop.
Symptoms men with Cushing syndrome may experience
Lower sex drive.
Reduced fertility.
Problems getting an erection.
Other possible symptoms of Cushing syndrome
Extreme tiredness.
Muscle weakness.
Depression, anxiety and irritability.
Emotions that are hard to control.
Trouble concentrating or remembering.
Sleeplessness.
High blood pressure.
Headache.
Infections.
Skin darkening.
Bone loss, which can lead to broken bones.
Stunted growth in children.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/11/ds00470_im00313_r7_cushingssyndromethu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
Home Remedies
Taking measures to care for your skin may help relieve symptoms, such as itching, and reduce your risk of infections. Your doctor may give you specific treatments to control itching and manage your infection risk.
It may also help to:
Use mild, unscented soap. Using a mild soap that doesn't cause additional irritation may help control itchiness.
Keep skin moisturized. Applying lotion to your skin after showers and baths can help control itchiness and create a barrier to protect against germs that can cause infections.
Ask about bleach baths. Ask your doctor whether it may be helpful for you to take regular bleach baths or soaks to reduce your risk of infections. For a bleach bath, add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measures are for a U.S.-standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes. Soak for up to 10 minutes two or three times a week. After, rinse with clean water and apply moisturizer.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma include:
Round patches of skin that may be raised or scaly and might be itchy
Patches of skin that appear lighter in color than surrounding skin
Lumps that form on the skin and may break open
Enlarged lymph nodes
Hair loss
Thickening of the skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet
A rash-like skin redness over the entire body that is intensely itchy
Causes
The exact cause of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma isn't known.
In general, cancer begins when cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains instructions that tell a cell what to do. The DNA mutations tell the cells to grow and multiply rapidly, creating many abnormal cells.
In cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the mutations cause too many abnormal T cells that attack the skin. T cells are part of your immune system, and they normally help your body fight germs. Doctors don't know why the cells attack the skin.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder)
Home Remedies
In addition to professional treatment, you can build on your treatment plan by following these lifestyle and self-care steps:
Take your medications as directed. Even if you're feeling well, resist any temptation to skip your medications. If you stop, cyclothymia symptoms are likely to come back.
Pay attention to warning signs. You may have identified a pattern to your cyclothymia symptoms and what triggers them. Follow your treatment plan if you feel you're facing a period of high or low symptoms. Involve family members or friends in watching for warning signs. Addressing symptoms early may keep them from getting worse.
Quit drinking or using recreational drugs. Alcohol and recreational drugs may trigger mood changes. Talk to your doctor if you have trouble quitting on your own.
Check first before taking other medications. Call the doctor who's treating you for cyclothymia before you take over-the-counter medications or medications prescribed by another doctor. Sometimes other medications trigger periods of cyclothymia symptoms or may interfere with medications you're already taking.
Keep a record. Track your moods, daily routines and significant life events. These records may help you and your mental health provider understand the effect of treatments and identify thinking patterns and behaviors associated with cyclothymia symptoms.
Get regular physical activity and exercise. Moderate, regular physical activity and exercise can help steady your mood. Working out releases brain chemicals that make you feel good (endorphins). It can also help you sleep and has a number of other benefits. Check with your doctor before starting any exercise program.
Get plenty of sleep. Don't stay up all night. Instead, get plenty of sleep. Sleeping enough is an important part of managing your mood. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your doctor or mental health provider about what you can do.
Symptoms=Cyclothymia symptoms alternate between emotional highs and lows. The highs of cyclothymia include symptoms of an elevated mood (hypomanic symptoms). The lows consist of mild or moderate depressive symptoms.
Cyclothymia symptoms are similar to those of bipolar I or II disorder, but they're less severe. When you have cyclothymia, you can typically function in your daily life, though not always well. The unpredictable nature of your mood shifts may significantly disrupt your life because you never know how you're going to feel.
Hypomanic symptoms
Signs and symptoms of the highs of cyclothymia may include:
An exaggerated feeling of happiness or well-being (euphoria)
Extreme optimism
Inflated self-esteem
Talking more than usual
Poor judgment that can result in risky behavior or unwise choices
Racing thoughts
Irritable or agitated behavior
Excessive physical activity
Increased drive to perform or achieve goals (sexual, work related or social)
Decreased need for sleep
Tendency to be easily distracted
Inability to concentrate
Depressive symptoms
Signs and symptoms of the lows of cyclothymia may include:
Feeling sad, hopeless or empty
Tearfulness
Irritability, especially in children and teenagers
Loss of interest in activities once considered enjoyable
Changes in weight
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
Sleep problems
Restlessness
Fatigue or feeling slowed down
Problems concentrating
Thinking of death or suicide
Risk Factors
Cyclothymia is thought to be relatively rare. But true estimates are hard to make because people may be undiagnosed or misdiagnosed as having other mood disorders, such as depression.
Cyclothymia typically starts during the teenage years or young adulthood. It affects about the same number of males and females.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent cyclothymia. However, treatment at the earliest indication of a mental health disorder can help prevent cyclothymia from worsening. Long-term preventive treatment also can help prevent minor symptoms from becoming full-blown episodes of hypomania, mania or major depression.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cystic fibrosis
Home Remedies
You can manage your condition and minimize complications in several ways.
Pay attention to nutrition and fluid intake
Cystic fibrosis can cause malnourishment because the enzymes needed for digestion can't reach your small intestine, preventing food from being absorbed. People with CF may need a much higher number of calories daily than do people without the condition.
A healthy diet is important to growth and development and to maintain good lung function. It's also important to drink lots of fluids, which can help thin the mucus in your lungs. You may work with a dietitian to develop a nutrition plan.
Your doctor may recommend:
Pancreatic enzyme capsules with every meal and snack
Medications to suppress acid production
Supplemental high-calorie nutrition
Special fat-soluble vitamins
Extra fiber to prevent intestinal blockage
Extra salt, especially during hot weather or before exercising
Adequate water intake, especially during hot weather
Keep vaccinations up to date
In addition to receiving other usual childhood vaccines, people with cystic fibrosis should have the annual flu vaccine and any other vaccines their doctors recommend, such as the vaccine to prevent pneumonia. CF doesn't affect the immune system, but children with CF are more likely to develop complications when they become sick.
Exercise
Regular exercise helps loosen mucus in your airways and strengthens your heart. Because people with cystic fibrosis are living longer, maintaining good cardiovascular fitness for a healthy life is important. Anything that gets you moving, including walking and biking, can help.
Eliminate smoke
Don't smoke, and don't allow other people to smoke around you or your child. Secondhand smoke is harmful for everyone, but especially for people with cystic fibrosis, as is air pollution.
Encourage hand-washing
Teach all the members of your family to wash their hands thoroughly before eating, after using the bathroom, when coming home from work or school, and after being around a person who is sick. Hand-washing is the best way to protect against infection.
Attend medical appointments
You'll have ongoing care from your doctor and other medical professionals.
Make sure to attend your regular follow-up appointments.
Take your medications as prescribed and follow therapies as instructed.
Talk to your doctor about how to manage symptoms and the warning signs of serious complications.
Symptoms=In the U.S., because of newborn screening, cystic fibrosis can be diagnosed within the first month of life, before symptoms develop. But people born before newborn screening became available may not be diagnosed until the signs and symptoms of CF show up.
Cystic fibrosis signs and symptoms vary, depending on the severity of the disease. Even in the same person, symptoms may worsen or improve as time passes. Some people may not experience symptoms until their teenage years or adulthood. People who are not diagnosed until adulthood usually have milder disease and are more likely to have atypical symptoms, such as recurring bouts of an inflamed pancreas (pancreatitis), infertility and recurring pneumonia.
People with cystic fibrosis have a higher than normal level of salt in their sweat. Parents often can taste the salt when they kiss their children. Most of the other signs and symptoms of CF affect the respiratory system and digestive system.
Respiratory signs and symptoms
The thick and sticky mucus associated with cystic fibrosis clogs the tubes that carry air in and out of your lungs. This can cause signs and symptoms such as:
A persistent cough that produces thick mucus (sputum)
Wheezing
Exercise intolerance
Repeated lung infections
Inflamed nasal passages or a stuffy nose
Recurrent sinusitis
Digestive signs and symptoms
The thick mucus can also block tubes that carry digestive enzymes from your pancreas to your small intestine. Without these digestive enzymes, your intestines aren't able to completely absorb the nutrients in the food you eat. The result is often:
Foul-smelling, greasy stools
Poor weight gain and growth
Intestinal blockage, particularly in newborns (meconium ileus)
Chronic or severe constipation, which may include frequent straining while trying to pass stool, eventually causing part of the rectum to protrude outside the anus (rectal prolapse)
Risk Factors
Because cystic fibrosis is an inherited disorder, it runs in families, so family history is a risk factor. Although CF occurs in all races, it's most common in white people of Northern European ancestry.
Prevention
If you or your partner has close relatives with cystic fibrosis, you both may choose to have genetic testing before having children. The test, which is performed in a lab on a sample of blood, can help determine your risk of having a child with CF.
If you're already pregnant and the genetic test shows that your baby may be at risk of cystic fibrosis, your doctor can conduct additional tests on your developing child.
Genetic testing isn't for everyone. Before you decide to be tested, you should talk to a genetic counselor about the psychological impact the test results might carry.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Cystitis
Home Remedies
Cystitis can be painful. To ease discomfort:
Use a heating pad. A heating pad placed on your lower abdomen may soothe bladder pressure or pain.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of fluids to keep yourself hydrated. Avoid coffee, alcohol, soft drinks with caffeine and citrus juices. Also avoid spicy foods until your infection clears. These items can irritate the bladder and make a frequent or urgent need to urinate worse.
For recurrent bladder infections, ask your provider about ways you can reduce the chance that you'll have another infection.
Symptoms=Cystitis signs and symptoms may include:
A strong, persistent urge to urinate
Pain or a burning feeling when urinating
Passing frequent, small amounts of urine
Blood in the urine (hematuria)
Passing cloudy or strong-smelling urine
Pelvic discomfort
A feeling of pressure in the area below your belly button (abdomen)
Low-grade fever
In young children, new episodes of accidental daytime wetting also may be a sign of a urinary tract infection (UTI). Nighttime bed-wetting on its own isn't likely to happen because of a UTI.
Risk Factors
Some people are more likely than others to develop bladder infections or repeated urinary tract infections. Women can have this problem. A key reason is physical anatomy. Women have a short urethra. This means bacteria that can cause an infection don't have as far to travel to reach the bladder.
You may be at greater risk of bladder infections or repeated UTIs if you:
Are sexually active. During sex, bacteria can be pushed into the urethra.
Use certain types of birth control. Using a diaphragm increases the risk of a UTI. Diaphragms that contain spermicide may increase risk even more.
Are pregnant. Hormone changes during pregnancy may increase the risk of a bladder infection.
Have gone through menopause. Changes to hormones that happen after menopause often can lead to UTIs.
Other risk factors include:
Interference with the flow of urine. This can occur in conditions such as a stone in the bladder or an enlarged prostate.
Changes in the immune system. This can happen with certain conditions, such as diabetes, HIV infection and cancer treatment.
Long-term use of urinary catheters. These tubes may be needed in people with chronic illnesses or in older adults. Prolonged use can put you at greater risk of bacterial infections as well as bladder tissue damage.
In generally healthy men, cystitis is rare.
Prevention
Self-care measures to prevent repeated bladder infections aren't well studied. But some providers recommend these tips for prevention:
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking lots of fluids is especially important after chemotherapy or radiation therapy, particularly on treatment days.
Urinate frequently. If you feel the urge to urinate, don't delay using the toilet.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement. This prevents bacteria in the anal region from spreading to the vagina and urethra.
Take showers rather than tub baths. If you're prone to infections, showering rather than taking a bath may help prevent them.
Gently wash the skin around the genitals. Do this daily, but don't use harsh soaps or wash too vigorously. The delicate skin in this area can become irritated.
Empty your bladder as soon as possible after sex. Drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid using deodorant sprays or hygiene products in the genital area. These products can irritate the urethra and bladder.
Cranberry
Cranberry juice or tablets containing proanthocyanidin are often recommended to help reduce the risk of recurrent bladder infections. Although research in this area is inconsistent, there is some evidence that cranberry may work to prevent recurrent infections for some people.
Cranberry products are generally considered to be safe in healthy people without any medical conditions.
But as a home remedy, be careful with cranberry juice or cranberry products if you're taking the blood-thinning medication warfarin (Coumadin). It's possible that there could be an interaction between cranberry and warfarin that could lead to bleeding. But the evidence is mixed.
Cranberry has not been shown to be an effective treatment if you already have a bladder infection.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dandruff
Home Remedies
You can take steps to reduce your risk of developing dandruff or to control it:
Learn to manage stress. Stress affects your overall health, making you susceptible to a number of conditions and diseases. It can even help trigger dandruff or worsen existing symptoms.
Eat a healthy diet. A diet that provides enough zinc, B vitamins and certain types of fats may help prevent dandruff.
Develop a hair and scalp care routine that suits you. If you tend to have an oily scalp, daily shampooing may help prevent dandruff. Gently massage your scalp to loosen flakes. Rinse thoroughly. If your hair tends to be dry and your scalp is sensitive, shampoo less frequently and condition your scalp between washings (Design Essentials, Melanin Haircare, ScalpBliss).
Get a little sun. Sunlight may be good for controlling dandruff. But because exposure to ultraviolet light damages your skin and increases your risk of skin cancer, don't sunbathe. Instead, just spend a little time outdoors. And be sure to wear sunscreen on your face and body.
Limit hair-styling products. Hair-styling products can build up on your hair and scalp, making them oilier.
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Tips for dealing with dandruff
Symptoms=Dandruff signs and symptoms may include:
Skin flakes on your scalp, hair, eyebrows, beard or mustache, and shoulders
Itchy scalp
Scaly, crusty scalp in infants with cradle cap
The signs and symptoms may be more severe if you're stressed, and they tend to flare in cold, dry seasons.
Risk Factors
Almost anyone can have dandruff, but certain factors can make you more susceptible:
Age. Dandruff usually begins in young adulthood and continues through middle age. That doesn't mean older adults don't get dandruff. For some people, the problem can be lifelong.
Being male. Dandruff is more prevalent in males than in females.
Certain illnesses. Parkinson's disease and other diseases that affect the nervous system also seem to increase risk of dandruff. So does having HIV or a weakened immune system.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
De Quervain tenosynovitis
Home Remedies
If you don't need surgery, caring for your condition is much the same as preventing it:
Avoid moving your wrists the same way repeatedly.
Wear a brace or splint if suggested by your health care provider.
Follow through with recommended exercises.
Note activity that causes pain, swelling or numbness in your thumb and wrist. Try to avoid this activity and share the information with your provider.
Symptoms=Symptoms of de Quervain tenosynovitis include:
Pain near the base of the thumb
Swelling near the base of the thumb
Difficulty moving the thumb and wrist when doing something that involves grasping or pinching
A "sticking" or "stop-and-go" sensation in the thumb when moving it
If the condition goes too long without treatment, the pain may spread farther into the thumb or forearm or both. Moving the thumb and wrist may make the pain worse.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for de Quervain tenosynovitis include:
Age. People between the ages of 30 and 50 have a higher risk of developing de Quervain tenosynovitis than do people in other age groups, including children.
Sex. The condition is more common in women.
Being pregnant. The condition may be associated with pregnancy.
Baby care. Lifting a child repeatedly involves using the thumbs as leverage and may be associated with the condition.
Jobs or hobbies that involve repetitive hand and wrist motions. These may contribute to de Quervain tenosynovitis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dementia
Home Remedies
Dementia symptoms and behavior problems get worse over time. Caregivers and care partners might try the following suggestions:
Enhance communication. When talking with your loved one, maintain eye contact. Speak slowly in simple sentences, and don't rush the response. Present one idea or instruction at a time. Use gestures and cues, such as pointing to objects.
Encourage exercise. The main benefits of exercise in people with dementia include improved strength, balance and cardiovascular health. Exercise also might help with symptoms such as restlessness. There is growing evidence that exercise also protects the brain from dementia, especially when combined with a healthy diet and treatment of risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
Some research also shows that physical activity might slow the progression of impaired thinking in people with Alzheimer's disease. It also can lessen symptoms of depression.
Engage in activity. Plan activities the person with dementia enjoys and can do. Dancing, painting, gardening, cooking, singing and other activities can help you connect with your loved one. The activities also can help people with dementia focus on what they can still do.
Establish a nighttime routine. Behavior is often worse at night. Try to establish going-to-bed routines. Aim for a calming routine away from the noise of television, meal cleanup and active family members. Leave night lights on in the bedroom, hall and bathroom to prevent disorientation.
Limiting caffeine, discouraging napping and offering opportunities for exercise during the day might ease nighttime restlessness.
Keep a calendar. A calendar might help your loved one remember upcoming events, daily activities and medicine schedules. Consider sharing a calendar with your loved one.
Plan for the future. Develop a plan while your loved one is still able to participate. The plan can state goals for future care. Support groups, legal advisers, family members and others might be able to help.
You'll also need to consider financial and legal issues, safety and daily living concerns, and long-term care options.
Symptoms=Dementia symptoms vary depending on the cause. Common symptoms include:
Cognitive changes
Memory loss, which is usually noticed by someone else.
Problems communicating or finding words.
Trouble with visual and spatial abilities, such as getting lost while driving.
Problems with reasoning or problem-solving.
Trouble performing complex tasks.
Trouble with planning and organizing.
Poor coordination and control of movements.
Confusion and disorientation.
Psychological changes
Personality changes.
Depression.
Anxiety.
Agitation.
Inappropriate behavior.
Being suspicious, known as paranoia.
Seeing things that aren't there, known as hallucinations.
Risk Factors
Many factors can eventually contribute to dementia. Some factors, such as age, can't be changed. You can address other factors to reduce your risk.
Risk factors that can't be changed
Age. The risk of dementia rises as you age, especially after age 65. However, dementia isn't a typical part of aging. Dementia also can occur in younger people.
Family history. Having a family history of dementia puts you at greater risk of developing the condition. However, many people with a family history never develop symptoms, and many people without a family history do. There are tests to determine whether you have certain genetic changes that may increase your risk.
Down syndrome. By middle age, many people with Down syndrome develop early-onset Alzheimer's disease.
Risk factors you can change
You might be able to control the following risk factors for dementia.
Diet and exercise. Research has found that people at higher risk of dementia who followed a healthy lifestyle lowered their risk of cognitive decline. They ate a diet that included fish, fruits, vegetables and oils. They also exercised, had cognitive training and participated in social activities. While no specific diet is known to reduce dementia risk, research indicates that those who follow a Mediterranean style diet rich in produce, whole grains, nuts and seeds have better cognitive function.
Drinking too much alcohol. Drinking large amounts of alcohol has long been known to cause brain changes. Several large studies and reviews found that alcohol use disorders were linked to an increased risk of dementia, particularly early-onset dementia.
Cardiovascular risk factors. These include obesity, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and the buildup of fats in the artery walls, known as atherosclerosis. Having high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), in particular, is a risk factor for cognitive decline and dementia. Diabetes and smoking also are cardiovascular risk factors. Having diabetes can increase the risk of dementia, especially if it's poorly controlled. Smoking might increase the risk of developing dementia and blood vessel disease.
Hearing loss or vision loss that is not treated. Having hearing loss is associated with a higher risk of dementia. The worse the hearing loss, the higher the risk. Research also suggests that vision loss can raise the risk of dementia, while treating vision loss can lower the risk.
Depression. Although not yet well understood, late-life depression might indicate the development of dementia.
Air pollution. Studies in animals have indicated that air pollution particulates can speed degeneration of the nervous system. And human studies have found that air pollution exposure — particularly from traffic exhaust and burning wood — is associated with greater dementia risk.
Head trauma. People who've had a severe head trauma have a greater risk of Alzheimer's disease. Several large studies found that in people age 50 years or older who had a traumatic brain injury (TBI), the risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease increased. The risk increases in people with more-severe and multiple TBIs. Some studies indicate that the risk may be greatest within the first six months to two years after the TBI.
Sleep symptoms. People who have sleep apnea and other sleep disturbances might be at higher risk of developing dementia.
Low levels of certain vitamins and nutrients. Low levels of vitamin D, vitamin B-6, vitamin B-12 and folate can increase the risk of dementia.
Medicines that can worsen memory. These include sleep aids that contain diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and medicines to treat urinary urgency such as oxybutynin (Ditropan XL).
Also limit sedatives and sleeping tablets. Talk to a health care professional about whether any of the medicines you take might make your memory worse.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent dementia, but there are steps you can take that might help. More research is needed, but it might help to do the following:
Keep your mind active. Mentally stimulating activities might delay the onset of dementia and decrease its effects. Spend time reading, solving puzzles and playing word games.
Be physically and socially active. Physical activity and social interaction might delay the onset of dementia and reduce its symptoms. Aim for 150 minutes of exercise a week.
Quit smoking. Some studies have shown that smoking in middle age and beyond might increase the risk of dementia and blood vessel conditions. Quitting smoking might reduce the risk and improve health.
Get enough vitamins. Some research suggests that people with low levels of vitamin D in their blood are more likely to develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. You can increase your vitamin D levels with certain foods, supplements and sun exposure.
More study is needed before an increase in vitamin D intake is recommended for preventing dementia. But it's a good idea to make sure you get adequate vitamin D. Taking a daily B-complex vitamin and vitamin C also might help.
Manage cardiovascular risk factors. Treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. Pay attention to your levels of LDL cholesterol and get treatment if the levels are too high. High levels of LDL in middle age raises the risk of dementia. Lose weight if you're overweight.
High blood pressure might lead to a higher risk of some types of dementia. More research is needed to determine whether treating high blood pressure may reduce the risk of dementia.
Treat health conditions. See your doctor for treatment of depression or anxiety.
Maintain a healthy diet. A diet such as the Mediterranean diet might promote health and lower the risk of developing dementia. A Mediterranean diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and omega-3 fatty acids, which are commonly found in certain fish and nuts. This type of diet also improves cardiovascular health, which also may help lower dementia risk.
Get good-quality sleep. Practice good sleep hygiene. Talk to a health care professional if you snore loudly or have periods where you stop breathing or gasp during sleep.
Treat hearing loss. People with hearing loss have a greater chance of developing problems with thinking, known as cognitive decline. Early treatment of hearing loss, such as use of hearing aids, might help decrease the risk.
Get regular eye exams and treat vision loss. Research suggests that not treating vision loss may be associated with a raised risk of dementia.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Depression (major depressive disorder)
Home Remedies
Depression generally isn't a disorder that you can treat on your own. But in addition to professional treatment, these self-care steps can help:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip psychotherapy sessions or appointments. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medications. If you stop, depression symptoms may come back, and you could also experience withdrawal-like symptoms. Recognize that it will take time to feel better.
Learn about depression. Education about your condition can empower you and motivate you to stick to your treatment plan. Encourage your family to learn about depression to help them understand and support you.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger your depression symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if your symptoms get worse. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Ask relatives or friends to help watch for warning signs.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. It may seem like alcohol or drugs lessen depression symptoms, but in the long run they generally worsen symptoms and make depression harder to treat. Talk with your doctor or therapist if you need help with alcohol or substance use.
Take care of yourself. Eat healthy, be physically active and get plenty of sleep. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or another activity that you enjoy. Sleeping well is important for both your physical and mental well-being. If you're having trouble sleeping, talk to your doctor about what you can do.
More Information
Depression (major depressive disorder) care at Mayo Clinic
Depression, anxiety and exercise
Symptoms=Although depression may occur only once during your life, people typically have multiple episodes. During these episodes, symptoms occur most of the day, nearly every day and may include:
Feelings of sadness, tearfulness, emptiness or hopelessness
Angry outbursts, irritability or frustration, even over small matters
Loss of interest or pleasure in most or all normal activities, such as sex, hobbies or sports
Sleep disturbances, including insomnia or sleeping too much
Tiredness and lack of energy, so even small tasks take extra effort
Reduced appetite and weight loss or increased cravings for food and weight gain
Anxiety, agitation or restlessness
Slowed thinking, speaking or body movements
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt, fixating on past failures or self-blame
Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions and remembering things
Frequent or recurrent thoughts of death, suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts or suicide
Unexplained physical problems, such as back pain or headaches
For many people with depression, symptoms usually are severe enough to cause noticeable problems in day-to-day activities, such as work, school, social activities or relationships with others. Some people may feel generally miserable or unhappy without really knowing why.
Depression symptoms in children and teens
Common signs and symptoms of depression in children and teenagers are similar to those of adults, but there can be some differences.
In younger children, symptoms of depression may include sadness, irritability, clinginess, worry, aches and pains, refusing to go to school, or being underweight.
In teens, symptoms may include sadness, irritability, feeling negative and worthless, anger, poor performance or poor attendance at school, feeling misunderstood and extremely sensitive, using recreational drugs or alcohol, eating or sleeping too much, self-harm, loss of interest in normal activities, and avoidance of social interaction.
Depression symptoms in older adults
Depression is not a normal part of growing older, and it should never be taken lightly. Unfortunately, depression often goes undiagnosed and untreated in older adults, and they may feel reluctant to seek help. Symptoms of depression may be different or less obvious in older adults, such as:
Memory difficulties or personality changes
Physical aches or pain
Fatigue, loss of appetite, sleep problems or loss of interest in sex — not caused by a medical condition or medication
Often wanting to stay at home, rather than going out to socialize or doing new things
Suicidal thinking or feelings, especially in older men
Risk Factors
Depression often begins in the teens, 20s or 30s, but it can happen at any age. More women than men are diagnosed with depression, but this may be due in part because women are more likely to seek treatment.
Factors that seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering depression include:
Certain personality traits, such as low self-esteem and being too dependent, self-critical or pessimistic
Traumatic or stressful events, such as physical or sexual abuse, the death or loss of a loved one, a difficult relationship, or financial problems
Blood relatives with a history of depression, bipolar disorder, alcoholism or suicide
Being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, or having variations in the development of genital organs that aren't clearly male or female (intersex) in an unsupportive situation
History of other mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorder, eating disorders or post-traumatic stress disorder
Abuse of alcohol or recreational drugs
Serious or chronic illness, including cancer, stroke, chronic pain or heart disease
Certain medications, such as some high blood pressure medications or sleeping pills (talk to your doctor before stopping any medication)
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent depression. However, these strategies may help.
Take steps to control stress, to increase your resilience and boost your self-esteem.
Reach out to family and friends, especially in times of crisis, to help you weather rough spells.
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent depression from worsening.
Consider getting long-term maintenance treatment to help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dermatitis
Home Remedies
These self-care habits can help you manage dermatitis and feel better:
Apply an anti-itch cream or ointment. Try 1% hydrocortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10, others). This is a product you can buy at a store without a prescription. Use it 1 to 2 times a day for a few days. Try cooling it in the refrigerator before applying.
Moisturize your skin. Apply a moisturizer once or twice a day, as a top layer over any medicated cream you're using. Ointments and creams tend to protect skin better than do lotions with high water content. Choose a product that has no dyes, alcohols, fragrances and other ingredients that might irritate the skin. Allow the moisturizer to absorb into the skin before getting dressed.
Apply a cool, wet cloth. Place a cool, wet cloth over the rash for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day. This may help soothe your skin.
Take a warm bath. Sprinkle your bathwater with finely ground oatmeal that's made for the bathtub. You might see this in the store labeled as colloidal oatmeal (Aveeno, others). Soak for less than 10 minutes, then pat dry. Apply moisturizer while the skin is still damp. A lotion with 12% ammonium lactate helps with flaky, dry skin.
Use medicated shampoos. For dandruff, first try nonprescription shampoos containing selenium sulfide, zinc pyrithione, coal tar or ketoconazole. If that doesn't help, talk with your doctor about a stronger shampoo, such as those available only with a prescription.
Take a bleach bath. This may help people with severe atopic dermatitis by decreasing the bacteria on the skin. For a dilute bleach bath, add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measures are for a U.S. standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes. Soak from the neck down or just the affected areas for 5 to 10 minutes. Don't put the head under water. Rinse with tap water, then pat dry. Take a bleach bath 2 to 3 times a week.
Many people have had success using a dilute vinegar bath rather than a bleach bath. Add 1 cup (236 milliliters) of vinegar to a bathtub filled with warm water.
Talk with your doctor about whether either of these approaches is a good idea for you.
Protect your skin. Avoid rubbing and scratching. Cover the itchy area with a dressing if you can't keep from scratching it. Trim your nails and wear gloves at night. While your skin heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun protection measures.
Avoid known irritants or allergens. Avoid rough and scratchy clothing. And try to identify and remove allergens and other things in your environment that irritate your skin. Fragrances used in skin care products are one of the common allergens. Avoid using perfumes, colognes and scented soaps, deodorants and laundry detergents. Choose unscented options. Avoid using fabric softeners in the washer or dryer.
Manage your stress. Emotional stress can cause some types of dermatitis to flare. Being aware of stress and anxiety and taking steps to improve your emotional health may help your skin too.
Symptoms=Contact dermatitis
Enlarge image
Each type of dermatitis tends to occur on a different part of the body. Symptoms may include:
Itchiness that can be painful.
Dry, cracked, scaly skin, more typical on white skin.
Rash on swollen skin that varies in color depending on skin color.
Blisters, perhaps with oozing and crusting.
Dandruff.
Thickened skin.
Small, raised bumps, more typical on brown or Black skin.
Risk Factors
Common risk factors for dermatitis include:
Age. Dermatitis can occur at any age, but atopic dermatitis is more common in children than adults. It often begins in infancy.
Allergies, atopic dermatitis and asthma. People who have a personal or family history of atopic dermatitis, allergies, hay fever or asthma are more likely to develop atopic dermatitis.
Occupation. Jobs that put you in contact with certain metals, solvents or cleaning supplies increase your risk of contact dermatitis. Being a health care worker is linked to hand eczema.
Other health conditions. Health conditions that put you at increased risk of seborrheic dermatitis include Parkinson's disease, immunodeficiency and HIV/AIDS.
Prevention
Wear protective clothing if you're doing a task that involves irritants or caustic chemicals.
Developing a basic skin care routine also may help prevent dermatitis. The following habits can help reduce the drying effects of bathing:
Take shorter baths and showers. Limit your bath or shower to about 10 minutes. Use lukewarm, not hot, water. Bath oil also may be helpful.
Use a mild soap or a soapless cleanser. Choose a cleanser that has no dyes, alcohols and fragrance. Some soaps can dry the skin. For young children, you usually need only warm water to get them clean — no soap or bubble bath needed. Don't scrub the skin with a washcloth or loofah.
Pat dry. After bathing, gently pat the skin with a soft towel. Avoid aggressive rubbing.
Moisturize all the skin. While the skin is still damp, seal in moisture with an oil, cream or lotion. Moisturize throughout the day as needed.
Many moisturizers are sold. Try different products to find one that works for you. The ideal moisturizer is safe, unscented, effective, affordable and one that you like to use regularly. Examples include Vanicream, Eucerin, CeraVe and Cetaphil.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Diabetes
Home Remedies
Diabetes is a serious disease. Following your diabetes treatment plan takes total commitment. Careful management of diabetes can lower your risk of serious or life-threatening complications.
Commit to managing your diabetes. Learn all you can about diabetes. Build a relationship with a diabetes educator. Ask your diabetes treatment team for help when you need it.
Choose healthy foods and stay at a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing just 7% of your body weight can make a difference in your blood sugar control if you have prediabetes or type 2 diabetes. A healthy diet is one with plenty of fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, whole grains and legumes. And limit how much food with saturated fat you eat.
Make physical activity part of your daily routine. Regular physical activity can help prevent prediabetes and type 2 diabetes. It can also help those who already have diabetes to maintain better blood sugar control. A minimum of 30 minutes of moderate physical activity — such as brisk walking — most days of the week is recommended. Aim for at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic physical activity a week.
Getting regular aerobic exercise along with getting at least two days a week of strength training exercises can help control blood sugar more effectively than does either type of exercise alone. Aerobic exercises can include walking, biking or dancing. Resistance training can include weight training and body weight exercises.
Also try to spend less time sitting still. Try to get up and move around for a few minutes at least every 30 minutes or so when you're awake.
Lifestyle recommendations for type 1 and type 2 diabetes
Also, if you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes:
Identify yourself. Wear a tag or bracelet that says you have diabetes. Keep a glucagon kit nearby in case of a low blood sugar emergency. Make sure your friends and loved ones know how to use it.
Schedule a yearly physical and regular eye exams. Your regular diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace yearly physicals or routine eye exams. During the physical, your provider will look for any diabetes-related complications and screen for other medical problems. Your eye care specialist will check for signs of eye damage, including retinal damage (retinopathy), cataracts and glaucoma.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken your immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your provider may recommend the pneumonia and COVID-19 vaccines, as well.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also currently recommends hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't previously had it and you're an adult ages 19 to 59 with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
The most recent CDC guidelines suggest vaccination as soon as possible after diagnosis with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. If you are age 60 or older, have been diagnosed with diabetes, and haven't previously received the vaccine, talk to your provider about whether it's right for you.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes. Moisturize with lotion, but not between the toes. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness or swelling. Talk to your provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that doesn't heal quickly on its own.
Control your blood pressure and cholesterol. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can help control high blood pressure and cholesterol. Drugs may be needed, too.
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush and floss your teeth at least twice a day. And if you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes, schedule regular dental exams. Talk to your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of many diabetes complications. Smokers who have diabetes are more likely to die of cardiovascular disease than are nonsmokers who have diabetes. Talk to your provider about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol can cause either high or low blood sugar. This depends on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so only in moderation — one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men — and always with food.
Remember to include the carbohydrates from any alcohol you drink in your daily carbohydrate count. And check your blood sugar levels before going to bed.
Take stress seriously. The hormones your body may make in response to long-term stress may prevent insulin from working properly. This will raise your blood sugar and stress you even more. Set limits for yourself and prioritize your tasks. Learn relaxation techniques. And get plenty of sleep.
Symptoms=Diabetes symptoms depend on how high your blood sugar is. Some people, especially if they have prediabetes, gestational diabetes or type 2 diabetes, may not have symptoms. In type 1 diabetes, symptoms tend to come on quickly and be more severe.
Some of the symptoms of type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes are:
Feeling more thirsty than usual.
Urinating often.
Losing weight without trying.
Presence of ketones in the urine. Ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin.
Feeling tired and weak.
Feeling irritable or having other mood changes.
Having blurry vision.
Having slow-healing sores.
Getting a lot of infections, such as gum, skin and vaginal infections.
Type 1 diabetes can start at any age. But it often starts during childhood or teen years. Type 2 diabetes, the more common type, can develop at any age. Type 2 diabetes is more common in people older than 40. But type 2 diabetes in children is increasing.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for diabetes depend on the type of diabetes. Family history may play a part in all types. Environmental factors and geography can add to the risk of type 1 diabetes.
Sometimes family members of people with type 1 diabetes are tested for the presence of diabetes immune system cells (autoantibodies). If you have these autoantibodies, you have an increased risk of developing type 1 diabetes. But not everyone who has these autoantibodies develops diabetes.
Race or ethnicity also may raise your risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Although it's unclear why, certain people — including Black, Hispanic, American Indian and Asian American people — are at higher risk.
Prediabetes, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes are more common in people who are overweight or obese.
Prevention
Type 1 diabetes can't be prevented. But the healthy lifestyle choices that help treat prediabetes, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes can also help prevent them:
Eat healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Eat a variety to keep from feeling bored.
Get more physical activity. Try to get about 30 minutes of moderate aerobic activity on most days of the week. Or aim to get at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity a week. For example, take a brisk daily walk. If you can't fit in a long workout, break it up into smaller sessions throughout the day.
Lose excess pounds. If you're overweight, losing even 7% of your body weight can lower the risk of diabetes. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds (90.7 kilograms), losing 14 pounds (6.4 kilograms) can lower the risk of diabetes.
But don't try to lose weight during pregnancy. Talk to your provider about how much weight is healthy for you to gain during pregnancy.
To keep your weight in a healthy range, work on long-term changes to your eating and exercise habits. Remember the benefits of losing weight, such as a healthier heart, more energy and higher self-esteem.
Sometimes drugs are an option. Oral diabetes drugs such as metformin (Glumetza, Fortamet, others) may lower the risk of type 2 diabetes. But healthy lifestyle choices are important. If you have prediabetes, have your blood sugar checked at least once a year to make sure you haven't developed type 2 diabetes.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Diabetes insipidus
Home Remedies
If you have diabetes insipidus:
Prevent dehydration. As long as you take your medicine and have easy access to water, you'll likely be able to prevent serious problems from dehydration. Plan ahead by carrying water with you wherever you go. Keep a supply of medicine with you when you're away from home.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or carry a medical alert card. If you have a medical emergency, the alert provides information that your health care providers need to give you the right care.
Symptoms=Symptoms of diabetes insipidus in adults include:
Being very thirsty, often with a preference for cold water.
Making large amounts of pale urine.
Getting up to urinate and drink water often during the night.
Adults typically urinate an average of 1 to 3 quarts (about 1 to 3 liters) a day. People who have diabetes insipidus and who drink a lot of fluids may make as much as 20 quarts (about 19 liters) of urine a day.
A baby or young child who has diabetes insipidus may have these symptoms:
Large amounts of pale urine that result in heavy, wet diapers.
Bed-wetting.
Being very thirsty, with a preference for drinking water and cold liquids.
Weight loss.
Poor growth.
Vomiting.
Irritability.
Fever.
Constipation.
Headache.
Problems sleeping.
Vision problems.
Risk Factors
Anyone can get diabetes insipidus. But those at higher risk include people who:
Have a family history of the disorder.
Take certain medicines, such as diuretics, that could lead to kidney problems.
Have high levels of calcium or low levels of potassium in their blood.
Have had a serious head injury or brain surgery.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Diarrhea
Home Remedies
Diarrhea usually clears up quickly without treatment. To help you cope with your symptoms until the diarrhea goes away, try to do the following:
Drink plenty of liquids, including water, broths and juices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Add semisolid and low-fiber foods gradually as your stool returns to what's typical for you. Try soda crackers, toast, eggs, rice or chicken.
Don't eat certain foods such as dairy products, fatty foods, high-fiber foods or highly seasoned foods for a few days.
Ask about antidiarrheal medicines. Nonprescription antidiarrheal medicines, such as loperamide and bismuth subsalicylate, might help reduce how often you pass watery stool and control severe symptoms.
Certain medical conditions and infections — bacterial and parasitic — can be worsened by these medicines because they prevent your body from getting rid of what's causing the diarrhea. Some of these medicines are not recommended for children. Check with your healthcare professional before taking these medicines or giving them to a child.
Take probiotics. These microorganisms may help restore a healthy balance to the intestinal tract by boosting the level of good bacteria. However, it's not clear if they can help shorten a bout of diarrhea. Probiotics are available in capsule or liquid form and are also added to some foods, such as certain brands of yogurt. Further research is needed to better understand which strains of bacteria are most helpful and what doses are needed.
Symptoms=Symptoms associated with loose, watery stools, also called diarrhea, may include:
Belly cramps or pain.
Bloating.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fever.
Blood in the stool.
Mucus in the stool.
Urgent need to pass stool.
Risk Factors
Some common risk factors for diarrhea include:
Exposure to viruses, bacteria or parasites. This is a major risk factor for sudden onset of diarrhea.
Diet. Certain foods or drinks, including coffee, tea, dairy products, or foods containing artificial sweeteners can cause diarrhea in some people.
Medicines. Some medicines, such as antibiotics, laxatives, magnesium supplements, antidepressants, NSAIDs, chemotherapy and immunotherapy, can cause diarrhea.
Prevention
Preventing infectious diarrhea
Wash your hands to prevent the spread of infectious diarrhea. To ensure adequate hand-washing:
Wash frequently. Wash your hands before and after preparing food. And wash your hands after handling uncooked meat, using the toilet, changing diapers, sneezing, coughing or blowing your nose.
Lather with soap for at least 20 seconds. After putting soap on your hands, rub your hands together for at least 20 seconds. This is about as long as it takes to sing "Happy Birthday" two times.
Use hand sanitizer when washing isn't possible. Use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer when you can't get to a sink. Apply the hand sanitizer as you would hand lotion, making sure to cover the front and back of both hands. Use a product that contains at least 60% alcohol.
Vaccination
You can help protect your infant from rotavirus, the most common cause of viral diarrhea in children, with one of two approved vaccines. Ask your baby's doctor about having your baby vaccinated.
Preventing traveler's diarrhea
Diarrhea commonly affects people who travel to countries with poor sanitation and contaminated food. To reduce your risk:
Watch what you eat. Eat hot, well-cooked foods. Don't eat raw fruits and vegetables unless you can peel them yourself. Don't eat raw or undercooked meats and dairy foods.
Watch what you drink. Drink bottled water, soda, beer or wine served in its original container. Don't drink tap water or use ice cubes. Use bottled water even for brushing your teeth. Keep your mouth closed while you shower.
Beverages made with boiled water, such as coffee and tea, are probably safe. Remember that alcohol and caffeine can aggravate diarrhea and worsen dehydration.
Ask your health care team about antibiotics. If you're traveling to a developing country for an extended time, ask a member of your healthcare team about getting antibiotics before you go, especially if you have a weakened immune system.
Check for travel warnings. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention maintains a travelers' health website where disease warnings are posted for various countries. If you're planning to travel outside of the United States, check there for warnings and tips for reducing your risk.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dislocated shoulder
Home Remedies
Try these steps to help ease discomfort and encourage healing after being treated for a dislocated shoulder:
Rest the shoulder. Don't repeat the specific action that caused the shoulder to dislocate. Try to avoid painful movements. Limit heavy lifting or overhead activity until the shoulder feels better.
Apply ice then heat. Putting ice on the shoulder helps reduce inflammation and pain. Use a cold pack, a bag of frozen vegetables or a towel filled with ice cubes for 15 to 20 minutes at a time. Do this every couple of hours the first day or two.
Take pain relievers. Medications such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve) or acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) might help relieve pain. Follow label directions and stop taking the drugs when the pain improves.
Maintain the range of motion of the shoulder. After one or two days, your health care provider might have you do some gentle exercises to help maintain the shoulder's range of motion. Being inactive can cause joints to stiffen.
Once the injury heals and the shoulder has good range of motion, keep exercising. Daily shoulder stretches and a shoulder-strengthening and stability program might help prevent another dislocation. Your health care provider can help plan an appropriate exercise routine.
Symptoms=Shoulder dislocation
Enlarge image
Dislocated shoulder symptoms can include:
A visibly deformed or out-of-place shoulder
Swelling or bruising
Intense pain
Inability to move the joint
Shoulder dislocation can also cause numbness, weakness or tingling near the injury, such as in the neck or down the arm. The muscles in the shoulder might spasm, which can increase the pain.
Risk Factors
Anyone can dislocate a shoulder. However, dislocated shoulders occur most often in people in their teens and 20s, particularly athletes involved in contact sports.
Prevention
To help prevent a dislocated shoulder:
Take care to avoid falls and other shoulder injuries
Wear protective gear when playing contact sports
Exercise regularly to maintain strength and flexibility in joints and muscles
Having a dislocated shoulder joint can increase the risk of future shoulder dislocations. To help avoid a recurrence, keep doing the strength and stability exercises prescribed for the injury.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dizziness
Home Remedies
If you tend to experience repeated episodes of dizziness, consider these tips:
Be aware of the possibility of losing your balance, which can lead to falling and serious injury.
Avoid moving suddenly and walk with a cane for stability, if needed.
Fall-proof your home by removing tripping hazards such as area rugs and exposed electrical cords. Use nonslip mats on your bath and shower floors. Use good lighting.
Sit or lie down immediately when you feel dizzy. Lie still with your eyes closed in a darkened room if you're experiencing a severe episode of vertigo.
Avoid driving a car or operating heavy machinery if you experience frequent dizziness without warning.
Avoid using caffeine, alcohol, salt and tobacco. Excessive use of these substances can worsen your signs and symptoms.
Drink enough fluids, eat a healthy diet, get enough sleep and avoid stress.
If your dizziness is caused by a medication, talk with your doctor about discontinuing it or lowering the dose.
If your dizziness comes with nausea, try an over-the-counter (nonprescription) antihistamine, such as meclizine or dimenhydrinate (Dramamine). These may cause drowsiness. Nondrowsy antihistamines aren't as effective.
If your dizziness is caused by overheating or dehydration, rest in a cool place and drink water or a sports drink (Gatorade, Powerade, others).
Symptoms=People experiencing dizziness may describe it as any of a number of sensations, such as:
A false sense of motion or spinning (vertigo)
Lightheadedness or feeling faint
Unsteadiness or a loss of balance
A feeling of floating, wooziness or heavy-headedness
These feelings may be triggered or worsened by walking, standing up or moving your head. Your dizziness may be accompanied by nausea or be so sudden or severe that you need to sit or lie down. The episode may last seconds or days and may recur.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of getting dizzy include:
Age. Older adults are more likely to have medical conditions that cause dizziness, especially a sense of imbalance. They're also more likely to take medications that can cause dizziness.
A past episode of dizziness. If you've experienced dizziness before, you're more likely to get dizzy in the future.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dry macular degeneration
Home Remedies
Even after receiving a diagnosis of dry macular degeneration, you can take steps that may help slow vision loss.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting.
Choose a healthy diet. The antioxidant vitamins in fruits and vegetables contribute to eye health. Kale, spinach, broccoli, squash and other vegetables have high levels of antioxidants, including lutein and zeaxanthin, which may benefit people with macular degeneration. Eating foods containing high levels of zinc also may be helpful for people with macular degeneration. These include high-protein foods, such as beef, pork and lamb. Nonmeat sources include milk, cheese, yogurt, whole-grain cereals and whole-wheat bread.
Another good choice is healthy unsaturated fat, such as in olive oil. And research studies have shown that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as in salmon, tuna and walnuts, may lower the risk of advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD). But the same benefit is not shown from taking omega-3 supplements, such as fish oil pills.
Manage your other medical conditions. If you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, for example, take your medicine and follow your provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Have routine eye exams. Ask your eye doctor about the recommended schedule for follow-up exams. In between checkups, you can do a self-assessment of your vision using an Amsler grid. These steps will help tell you if your condition develops into wet macular degeneration, which can be treated with medicines.
Symptoms=Dry macular degeneration symptoms usually develop gradually and without pain. They may include:
Visual distortions, such as straight lines seeming bent.
Reduced central vision in one or both eyes.
The need for brighter light when reading or doing close-up work.
Increased difficulty adapting to low light levels, such as when entering a dimly lit restaurant or theater.
Increased blurriness of printed words.
Difficulty recognizing faces.
A well-defined blurry spot or blind spot in the field of vision.
Dry macular degeneration can affect one or both eyes. If only one eye is affected, you may not notice any changes in your vision. This is because your good eye may compensate for the affected eye. And the condition doesn't affect the side vision, so it does not cause total blindness.
Dry macular degeneration is one of two types of age-related macular degeneration. It can progress to wet macular degeneration, which is when blood vessels grow and leak under the retina. The dry type is more common, but it usually progresses slowly over years. The wet type is more likely to cause a relatively sudden change in vision resulting in serious vision loss.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of macular degeneration include:
Age. This disease is most common in people over 60.
Family history and genetics. This disease has a hereditary component. Researchers have identified several genes linked to the condition.
Race. Macular degeneration is more common in white people.
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes or being regularly exposed to tobacco smoke greatly increases your risk of macular degeneration.
Obesity. Research indicates that being obese may increase your chance that early or intermediate macular degeneration will progress to the more severe form of the disease.
Cardiovascular disease. If you have heart or blood vessel disease, you may be at higher risk of macular degeneration.
Prevention
It's important to have routine eye exams to identify early signs of macular degeneration. The following measures may help reduce your risk of developing dry macular degeneration:
Manage all medical conditions. For example, if you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Don't smoke. Smokers are more likely to develop macular degeneration than are nonsmokers. Ask your provider for help stopping smoking.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. These foods contain antioxidant vitamins that reduce your risk of developing macular degeneration.
Include fish in your diet. Omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in fish, may reduce the risk of macular degeneration. Nuts such as walnuts also contain omega-3 fatty acids.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dry mouth
Home Remedies
In addition to your healthcare professional's advice, these tips may ease dry mouth symptoms:
Sip water or sugar-free drinks or suck on ice chips. Do this throughout the day to moisten your mouth. Also, drink water during meals to make it easier to chew and swallow.
Chew sugar-free gum or suck on sugar-free hard candies. Products that contain xylitol also may help prevent cavities. But xylitol, which is often found in sugar-free gum and sugar-free candies, may cause some people to have gas or diarrhea if they consume it in large amounts.
Try saliva substitutes that contain xylitol and are available without a prescription. These include Mouth Kote or Oasis Moisturizing Mouth Spray. Or try saliva substitutes that contain carboxymethylcellulose (kahr-bok-see-meth-ul-SEL-u-lohs) or hydroxyethyl cellulose (hi-drok-see-ETH-ul SEL-u-lohs), such as Biotene Dry Mouth Oralbalance Gel.
Breathe through your nose, not your mouth. You may need to seek treatment for snoring if it causes you to breathe through your mouth during the night.
Add moisture to the air at night. Use a room humidifier.
Moisturize your lips. This helps soothe dry or cracked areas.
Stay away from products that can make your symptoms worse. These include:
Caffeine and alcohol. These products can cause dryness and irritation. Don't use a mouthwash that contains alcohol.
Tobacco. If you smoke or chew tobacco, stop. Tobacco products can dry and irritate your mouth.
Antihistamines and decongestants available without a prescription. These medicines can worsen your dry mouth.
Sugary or acidic foods and candies. These foods raise the risk of tooth decay. Also, stay away from spicy or salty foods because they can cause irritation.
Saliva is important to maintain the health of your teeth and mouth. Taking these steps to protect your teeth also may help your dry mouth:
Brush with a fluoride toothpaste and floss your teeth. Ask your dentist if you might benefit from prescription fluoride toothpaste, a toothpaste containing betaine or a tooth gel to neutralize bacteria acids.
Use fluoride or rinses. To prevent cavities, your dentist might fit you for fluoride trays, which you fill with fluoride and wear over your teeth at night. Your dentist also may recommend that you brush on fluoride gel before bedtime or use a chlorhexidine rinse weekly.
See your dentist at least twice yearly. Have your teeth examined and plaque removed to help prevent tooth decay.
Symptoms=If you're not producing enough saliva, you may notice these symptoms all or most of the time:
Dryness or a feeling of stickiness in your mouth.
Saliva that seems thick and stringy.
Bad breath.
Having a hard time chewing, speaking and swallowing.
Dry or sore throat and hoarseness.
Dry or grooved tongue.
A changed sense of taste.
Problems wearing dentures.
Lipstick stuck to teeth.
Saliva helps prevent tooth decay by washing away sugar and food particles and making bacteria neutral and less harmful. When you don't have enough saliva, you may find it harder to taste, chew and swallow. You also may have a hard time digesting food.
Risk Factors
Risk of dry mouth is higher in people who:
Take medicines that have dry mouth listed as a possible side effect.
Are being treated for cancer.
Have nerve damage in the head and neck area.
Have other health conditions, such as diabetes, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Sjogren syndrome or HIV/AIDS.
Use tobacco products.
Drink alcohol.
Use street drugs.
Eat sugary or acidic foods or candies.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dry skin
Home Remedies
The following measures can help keep your skin moist and healthy:
Gently wash your face at least twice a day. Use a gentle, alcohol-free, nonfoaming cleanser on your face twice a day and after sweating. Products with stearic acid (found in shea butter) or linoleic acid (found in argan oil and others) can help repair your skin. If you have sensitive skin, wash with a cleanser in the evening and just rinse with water other times.
While your skin is still damp, apply any topical medication you're using, wait a few minutes (see medication packaging for specifics), then apply your moisturizer. If you use cosmetics, consider selecting products with a cream or oil base. Use a moisturizer that contains sunblock or a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Moisturize. Apply moisturizer several times a day, especially when your skin feels dry and after handwashing or bathing, while your skin is still moist. Ask your doctor about the pros and cons of various products for your skin and condition. You may need to try several products before you find those you like, that help you and that you'll use regularly.
Look for healing ingredients such as urea, ceramides, fatty acids and glycerol (also known as glycerin), shea butter, and cocoa butter. Look for fragrance-free products that don't cause acne (noncomedogenic) and don't contain allergy-causing substances (hypoallergenic). Avoid products that contain sodium lauryl sulfate, which is drying.
For the face and neck, you might want to use a cream. Choose something that's easy to apply and leaves no visible residue. If you are acne-prone, avoid products on your face that contain petroleum jelly, cocoa butter or coconut oil. If you skin is very oily, try using a sunscreen instead of a moisturizer. If you have mature skin, you might prevent scaly, flaky skin by using products that contain antioxidants or alpha hydroxy acid. Moisturizers often form the basis for wrinkle creams, with added retinoids, antioxidants, peptides and other ingredients.
If nonfacial skin is very dry, you might want to use a thicker moisturizer (Eucerin, Cetaphil, others) or an oil, such as baby oil. Oil has more staying power than do lotions and prevents the evaporation of water from the skin's surface. Another possibility is a petrolatum-based product (Vaseline, Aquaphor, others). If it feels too greasy, use it only at bedtime or just on tiny cracks in your skin. For very dry hands, apply petroleum jelly liberally at bedtime and put on plain cotton socks or gloves.
Use warm water and limit bath time. Long showers or baths and hot water remove your skin's natural oils. Limit bathing to no more than once a day and no longer than 5-10 minutes. Use warm, not hot, water.
Use allergen-free moisturizing soap. For handwashing, use fragrance-free (hypoallergenic) moisturizing soap. Then apply a moisturizing cream while your hands are still damp.
In the shower or bath, try a nonsoap cleansing cream or shower gel, and use soap only in areas where needed, such as the armpits and groin. Avoid loofahs and pumice stones. Rinse thoroughly and pat dry.
Use a humidifier. Hot, dry, indoor air can parch sensitive skin and worsen itching and flaking. A portable home humidifier or one attached to your furnace adds moisture to the air inside your home.
Choose fabrics that are kind to your skin. Natural fibers, such as cotton, allow your skin to breathe. Wool, although natural, sometimes irritates even healthy skin.
For laundry, use detergents without dyes or perfumes, both of which can irritate your skin. These types of products usually have the word "free" in their names.
Relieve itchiness. If dry skin causes itchiness, apply a clean, cool, damp cloth to the affected area. You might also apply an anti-itch cream or ointment, containing at least 1% hydrocortisone.
If these measures don't relieve your symptoms or if your symptoms worsen, see your doctor or consult a dermatologist about creating a personalized skin care plan based on your skin type and any skin condition you may have.
Mayo Clinic Minute: The many benefits of petroleum jelly
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: The many benefits of petroleum jelly
More Information
How to heal cracked heels
How to heal cracked skin at thumb tip
Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
Symptoms=Dry skin is often temporary or seasonal — you might get it only in winter, for example — or you might need to treat it long term. Signs and symptoms of dry skin might vary based on your age, health status, skin tone, living environment and sun exposure. They include:
A feeling of skin tightness
Skin that feels and looks rough
Itchiness (pruritus)
Slight to severe flaking skin, which causes the ashy look that can affect dry brown and black skin
Slight to severe scaling or peeling
Cracked "dry riverbed" look to leg
Fine lines or cracks
Skin that ranges from reddish on white skin to grayish on brown and black skin
Deep cracks that may bleed
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop dry skin. But you're more likely to develop the condition if you:
Are over 40, as the skin's ability to retain moisture diminishes with age
Live in cold, windy conditions or low-humidity climates
Have a job that requires you to immerse your hands in water, such as nursing or hairstyling
Use your hands to work with cement, clay or soil
Swim frequently in chlorinated pools
Have certain diseases or conditions, such as hypothyroidism, diabetes or malnutrition
Prevention
Try these tips to help your skin retain moisture:
Moisturize. Moisturizer seals in water to help keep your skin's protective barrier healthy. Use moisturizer throughout the day, especially on the hands. And before going outdoors, use a moisturizer that contains sunblock or a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Limit water exposure. Keep bath and shower time to 10 minutes or less. Use warm, not hot, water. Rinse and pat dry. Try to bathe no more than once a day.
Use a gentle cleanser or allergen-free soap. Try a nonsoap cleansing cream or shower gel. Or use fragrance-free moisturizing soap with no alcohol or allergy-causing substances (hypoallergenic soap), especially if you handwash often. Rinse thoroughly and pat dry. Apply a moisturizing cream while your skin is still damp.
Shave with care. Shaving can be drying. If you shave, use a lubricating agent before you start. Shave in the direction of hair growth, unless that irritates your skin. Use a sharp blade and rinse it with warm water after each stroke. When done, apply moisturizer.
Cover as much skin as possible in cold or windy weather. Harsh weather can be especially drying to skin. Scarves, hats, and gloves or mittens help protect your skin when you're outdoors.
Wear gloves. Protect your hands with suitable gloves when gardening, using harsh cleansers and doing other skin-drying activities.
Rinse and moisturize after swimming. This is especially important if you've been swimming in a heavily chlorinated pool.
Drink when you're thirsty. Drink noncaffeinated beverages each day to help keep all your body's tissues, including your skin, well hydrated.
Bathe babies with care. For babies, using a cleanser every 1-2 weeks for bathing usually is enough. Otherwise, bathe them in just water. However, clean their diaper area with each diaper change. Apply a thin layer of petroleum jelly (Vaseline, Aquaphor, others) while the skin is still damp.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dry socket
Home Remedies
You can help promote healing and reduce symptoms during treatment of dry socket by following instructions for self-care. You'll likely be told to:
Take pain medicines as prescribed.
Do not smoke or use tobacco products.
Drink plenty of clear liquids. This also may prevent nausea caused by some pain medicines.
Rinse your mouth gently with warm salt water several times a day.
Brush your teeth gently around the dry socket area.
Be careful with eating or drinking. To prevent the clot from coming out, avoid carbonated beverages and do not use a straw.
Symptoms=Symptoms of dry socket may include:
Severe pain within a few days after removing a tooth.
Loss of part or all of the blood clot at the tooth removal site. The socket may look empty.
Bone that you can see in the socket.
Pain that spreads from the socket to your ear, eye, temple or neck on the same side of your face as the tooth removal.
Bad breath or a foul odor coming from your mouth.
Bad taste in your mouth.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of developing dry socket include:
Smoking and tobacco use. Chemicals in cigarettes or other forms of tobacco may prevent or slow healing. These chemicals can get into the wound site. Also, the act of sucking on a cigarette may cause the blood clot to come out too early.
Birth control pills. High estrogen levels from birth control pills may cause problems with healing and increase the risk of dry socket.
Improper at-home care. Not following home-care instructions and having poor mouth care may increase the risk of dry socket.
Tooth or gum infection. Current or previous infections around the area where the tooth was removed increase the risk of dry socket.
Prevention
What you can do before surgery
You can take these steps to help prevent dry socket:
Look for a dentist or oral surgeon with experience in removing teeth.
Practice good oral care by brushing your teeth twice a day and flossing once a day. Good oral care before surgery keeps your teeth and gums clean and removes bacteria.
If you smoke or use other tobacco products, try to stop smoking before your tooth is removed. Smoking and using other tobacco products increase your risk of dry socket. Talk to your doctor or other health care professional about a program to help you quit for good.
Talk to your dentist or oral surgeon about any prescription medicines, medicines you can buy off the shelf, herbs, or other supplements you're taking. Some may cause problems with blood clotting.
What your dentist or oral surgeon may do
Your dentist or oral surgeon can take steps to help with proper healing of the socket and prevent dry socket. These steps may include recommending one or more of these medicines, which may help prevent dry socket and infections:
Dressing with medicine to put on the wound after surgery.
Antibacterial mouthwashes or gels immediately before and after surgery.
Antiseptic solutions to put on the wound.
Oral antibiotics, usually only if you have a weakened immune system.
What you can do after surgery
Your dentist or oral surgeon can give you instructions about what to expect during the healing process after a tooth removal and how to care for the site. Proper at-home care after a tooth removal helps with healing and prevents damage to the wound. To help prevent dry socket, instructions will likely include:
Activity. After your surgery, plan to rest for that day. Follow instructions from your dentist or oral surgeon about when you can return to your usual activities. Also follow instructions about how long to avoid vigorous exercise and sports that might cause the blood clot to come out of the socket.
Pain management. Put cold packs on the outside of your face on the first day after tooth removal. After the first day, warm packs may help. Cold and warm packs can help decrease pain and swelling. Follow instructions from your dentist or oral surgeon about putting cold or heat on your face. Take pain medicines as prescribed.
Beverages. Drink lots of water after the surgery. Avoid alcoholic, caffeinated, carbonated or hot beverages for as long as recommended. Do not drink with a straw for at least a week. The sucking action may cause the blood clot to come out of the socket.
Food. Eat only soft foods, such as yogurt or applesauce, for the first day. Be careful with hot and cold liquids or biting your cheek until the numbness wears off. When you feel ready, start eating foods that do not need a lot of chewing. Avoid chewing on the surgery side of your mouth.
Cleaning your mouth. After surgery, you may gently rinse your mouth and brush your teeth, but avoid the site where the tooth was removed for the first 24 hours. After the first 24 hours, gently rinse your mouth with warm salt water several times a day for a week after your surgery. Mix 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 milliliters) of table salt in 8 ounces (237 milliliters) of water. Follow the instructions from your dentist or oral surgeon.
Tobacco use. If you smoke or use tobacco, do not do so for at least 48 hours after surgery and as long as you can after that. Using tobacco products after oral surgery can slow healing and increase the risk of complications.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dupuytren contracture
Home Remedies
If you have mild Dupuytren contracture, you can protect your hands by:
Avoiding a tight grip on tools by building up the handles with pipe insulation or cushion tape.
Using gloves with heavy padding during heavy grasping tasks.
Symptoms=Dupuytren contracture gets worse slowly, over years. The condition begins with a firm lump in the palm of the hand. This lump can be painful or painless.
Over time, the lump can extend into a hard cord under the skin and up into the finger. This cord tightens and pulls the finger toward the palm, sometimes severely.
Dupuytren contracture most commonly affects the two fingers farthest from the thumb. The condition often occurs in both hands.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The cause of Dupuytren contracture is unknown. The condition tends to run in families. It’s more common in men than in women.
Risk factors
Risk factors for Dupuytren contracture include:
Age. Dupuytren contracture occurs most commonly after the age of 50.
Sex. Men are much more likely to develop Dupuytren than are women. In men, symptoms may be worse and progress more quickly.
Ancestry. People of Northern European descent are at higher risk of the disease.
Family history. Dupuytren contracture often runs in families.
Occupation. Some studies show a connection between Dupuytren contracture and workers who use vibrating tools.
Diabetes. People with diabetes have an increased risk of Dupuytren contracture.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol both increase the risk of Dupuytren contracture.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Risk factors for Dupuytren contracture include:
Age. Dupuytren contracture occurs most commonly after the age of 50.
Sex. Men are much more likely to develop Dupuytren than are women. In men, symptoms may be worse and progress more quickly.
Ancestry. People of Northern European descent are at higher risk of the disease.
Family history. Dupuytren contracture often runs in families.
Occupation. Some studies show a connection between Dupuytren contracture and workers who use vibrating tools.
Diabetes. People with diabetes have an increased risk of Dupuytren contracture.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol both increase the risk of Dupuytren contracture.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/12/ds00732_im01142_ans7_dupuytrensthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Dwarfism
Home Remedies
Talk with your pediatrician or a specialist about at-home care. Issues critical for children with disproportionate dwarfism include:
Car seats. Use an infant car seat with firm back and neck supports. Continue using a car seat in the rear-facing direction to the highest weight and height possible and beyond the recommended age limit.
Infant carriers and play equipment. Stay away from infant devices — such as swings, umbrella strollers, carrying slings, jumper seats and backpack carriers — that don't support the neck or that curve the back into a C shape.
Ample head and neck support. Support the head and neck when your child is seated. Hold the head, neck and upper back in a safe and stable position. Padding can help provide the right position and support.
Complications. Watch your child for signs of complications, such as ear infections or sleep apnea.
Posture. Promote good posture by providing a pillow for the lower back and a footstool when your child is sitting.
Healthy diet. Begin healthy eating habits early to stay away from problems with weight gain later.
Healthy activities. Urge participation in recreational activities that are right for your child as recommended by the healthcare team, such as swimming or bicycling. But stay away from sports that involve collision or impact, such as football, wrestling, diving or gymnastics.
Symptoms=Symptoms — other than short stature — vary greatly across the range of dwarfism conditions.
Disproportionate dwarfism
Most people with dwarfism have conditions that cause short stature with body parts that aren't the same size as one another. Usually, this means that a person has an average-sized trunk and very short limbs. But some people may have a very short trunk and short limbs. Those limbs are larger than the rest of the body. In these people, the head is large compared with the body.
Almost all people with disproportionate dwarfism have average intelligence. Rare exceptions are usually due to a secondary factor, such as excess fluid around the brain. This also is known as hydrocephalus.
The most common cause of dwarfism is a condition called achondroplasia, which causes disproportionately short stature. This condition usually results in:
An average-sized trunk.
Short arms and legs, with particularly short upper arms and upper legs.
Short fingers, often with a wide separation between the middle and ring fingers.
Limited mobility at the elbows.
A large head in relation to the rest of the body, with a prominent forehead and a flattened bridge of the nose.
Bowed legs that get worse.
Swayed lower back that gets worse.
An adult height of 4 feet, 1 inch (125 cm) for women and 4 feet 4 inches (132 cm) for men.
Another cause of disproportionate dwarfism is a rare condition called spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita (SEDC).
Signs may include:
A very short trunk.
A short neck.
Shortened arms and legs.
Average-sized hands and feet.
A broad, rounded chest.
Slightly flattened cheekbones.
An opening in the roof of the mouth, also called a cleft palate.
Changes in hip structure that result in thighbones turning inward.
A foot that's twisted or out of shape.
Neck bones that are not stable.
Hunching curvature of the upper spine that gets worse over time.
Swayed lower back that gets worse over time.
Vision and hearing problems.
Arthritis and problems moving joints.
Adult height ranging from 3 feet (91 cm) to just over 4 feet (122 cm).
Proportionate dwarfism
Proportionate dwarfism results from medical conditions present at birth or that occur in early childhood that limit overall growth and development. The head, trunk and limbs are all small, but they're small to the same degree. Because these conditions affect overall growth, poor development of one or more body systems is possible.
Growth hormone deficiency is a fairly common cause of proportionate dwarfism. It occurs when the pituitary gland doesn't make enough growth hormone. This hormone is needed for typical childhood growth.
Signs include:
Height below the third percentile on standard pediatric growth charts.
Growth rate slower than expected for age.
Delayed or no sexual development during the teen years.
Risk Factors
Risk factors depend on the type of dwarfism. In many cases, a gene change related to dwarfism happens at random and is not passed from parent to child. If one or both parents have dwarfism, the risk of having a child with dwarfism rises.
If you want to become pregnant and need to understand the chances of your child having dwarfism, talk with your healthcare professional about getting genetic testing. Also ask about other risk factors.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dyshidrosis
Home Remedies
Home treatment might include:
Applying a moist cloth. A wet, cool cloth may help reduce itching.
Taking anti-itch drugs. Antihistamine medicine that you can get at a store without a prescription may help relieve itching. Examples are diphenhydramine and loratadine (Alavert, Claritin).
Symptoms=Dyshidrosis symptoms include painful, itchy and fluid-filled blisters on the sides of the fingers, the palms of the hands and the bottoms of the feet. The blisters are small — about the width of a standard pencil lead. They are grouped in clusters and can look like tapioca.
With severe disease, the small blisters can merge to form larger blisters. Skin affected by dyshidrosis can be painful and very itchy. After a few weeks, the blisters dry and flake off.
Dyshidrosis tends to come back regularly for months or years.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for dyshidrosis include:
Stress. Dyshidrosis appears to be more common during times of emotional or physical stress.
Exposure to certain metals. These include cobalt and nickel — often in an industrial setting.
Sensitive skin. People who develop a rash after contact with certain irritants are more likely to form the blisters of dyshidrosis.
Atopic dermatitis. Some people with atopic dermatitis may have dyshidrosis.
Prevention
There's no way to prevent dyshidrosis. It may help to manage stress and avoid exposure to metal salts, such as cobalt and nickel.
Good skin care practices may help protect the skin as well. These include:
Using mild, nonsoap cleansers and lukewarm water to wash your hands.
Drying your hands well.
Applying moisturizer at least twice a day.
Wearing gloves. But if you notice that wearing gloves worsens the rash, you may be sensitive to gloves. Let your doctor know about this. Try cotton gloves to prevent irritation. For wet activities, you might try wearing cotton gloves under waterproof gloves.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/51/ds00804_im00307_mcdc7_dyshidrosisthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Dysphagia
Home Remedies
If you have trouble swallowing, be sure to see a healthcare professional. You also may try these approaches to help ease symptoms:
Changing your eating habits. Try eating smaller, more frequent meals. Cut your food into smaller pieces, chew food thoroughly and eat more slowly. If you have difficulty swallowing liquids, there are products you can buy to thicken liquids.
Trying foods with different textures to see if some cause you more trouble. Thin liquids, such as coffee and juice, are a problem for some people, and sticky foods, such as peanut butter or caramel, can make swallowing difficult. Avoid foods that cause you trouble.
Limiting alcohol and caffeine. These can dry your mouth and throat, making swallowing more difficult.
Symptoms=Symptoms associated with dysphagia can include:
Pain while swallowing.
Not being able to swallow.
Feeling as if food is stuck in the throat or chest or behind the breastbone.
Drooling.
Hoarseness.
Food coming back up, called regurgitation.
Frequent heartburn.
Food or stomach acid backing up into the throat.
Weight loss.
Coughing or gagging when swallowing.
Risk Factors
The following are risk factors for dysphagia:
Aging. Older adults are at higher risk of swallowing difficulties. This is due to natural aging and wear and tear on the esophagus as well as a greater risk of certain conditions, such as stroke or Parkinson's disease. But dysphagia isn't considered a typical sign of aging.
Certain health conditions. People with certain neurological or nervous system disorders are more likely to have difficulty swallowing.
Prevention
Although swallowing difficulties can't be prevented, you can reduce your risk of occasional difficulty swallowing by eating slowly and chewing your food well. However, if you have symptoms of dysphagia, see a healthcare professional.
If you have GERD, see a healthcare professional for treatment.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Dystonia
Home Remedies
Dystonia has no cure, but you can do several things to manage symptoms:
Sensory tricks to reduce spasms. Touching certain parts of your body may cause spasms to stop temporarily.
Heat or cold. Applying heat or cold can help ease muscle pain.
Stress management. Learn effective coping skills to manage stress, such as deep breathing, social support and positive self-talk.
Symptoms=Dystonia affects different people in different ways. Muscle spasms might:
Begin in a single area, such as your leg, neck or arm. Focal dystonia that begins after age 21 usually starts in the neck, arm or face. Although it tends to remain in the single area, it may spread to a neighboring area of the body.
Occur during a specific action, such as writing by hand.
Worsen with stress, fatigue or anxiety.
Become more noticeable over time.
Areas of the body that can be affected include:
Neck. When the neck muscles are involved, it's called cervical dystonia. Contractions cause the head to twist and turn to one side. Or the head may pull forward or backward. Cervical dystonia sometimes causes pain.
Eyelids. When muscles controlling eye blinks are involved, it's called blepharospasm. Rapid blinking or muscle spasms that cause your eyes to close make it hard to see. The muscle spasms usually aren't painful. They might increase in bright light or while reading, watching TV or interacting with people. They also might increase under stress. The eyes might feel dry, gritty or sensitive to light.
Jaw or tongue. When the muscles of the jaw and tongue are affected, it's called oromandibular dystonia. It can cause slurred speech, drooling, and trouble chewing or swallowing. This type of dystonia can be painful. It often occurs with cervical dystonia or blepharospasm.
Voice box and vocal cords. When the voice box or vocal cords are affected, it's called laryngeal dystonia. It can cause a strained or whispering voice.
Hand and forearm. Some types of dystonia occur only while doing an activity over and over, such as writing or playing a musical instrument. These are known as writer's dystonia and musician's dystonia. Symptoms usually don't happen when the arm is at rest.
Risk Factors
Your risk for dystonia increases if you have a family history of the movement disorder. Women also have a higher risk. They have dystonia twice as often as men do.
Another risk factor for dystonia is having a condition that causes dystonia, such as Parkinson's disease or Huntington's disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
E. coli
Home Remedies
Follow these tips to prevent dehydration and reduce symptoms while you recover:
Drink clear liquids. Drink plenty of clear liquids, including water, clear sodas and broths, gelatin, and juices. Avoid apple and pear juices, caffeine, and alcohol.
Avoid certain foods. Dairy products, fatty foods, high-fiber foods or highly seasoned foods can make symptoms worse.
Eat meals. When you start feeling better, you can return to your normal diet.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of E. coli O157:H7 infection usually begin three or four days after exposure to the bacteria. But you may become ill as soon as one day after exposure to more than a week later. Signs and symptoms include:
Diarrhea, which may range from mild and watery to severe and bloody
Stomach cramping, pain or tenderness
Nausea and vomiting, in some people
Risk Factors
E. coli can affect anyone who is exposed to the bacteria. But some people are more likely to develop problems than are others. Risk factors include:
Age. Young children and older adults are at higher risk of experiencing illness caused by E. coli and more-serious complications from the infection.
Weakened immune systems. People who have weakened immune systems — from AIDS or from drugs to treat cancer or prevent the rejection of organ transplants — are more likely to become ill from ingesting E. coli.
Eating certain types of food. Riskier foods include undercooked hamburger; unpasteurized milk, apple juice or cider; and soft cheeses made from raw milk.
Time of year. Though it's not clear why, the majority of E. coli infections in the U.S. occur from June through September.
Decreased stomach acid levels. Stomach acid offers some protection against E. coli. If you take medications to reduce stomach acid, such as esomeprazole (Nexium), pantoprazole (Protonix), lansoprazole (Prevacid) and omeprazole (Prilosec), you may increase your risk of an E. coli infection.
Prevention
No vaccine or medication can protect you from E. coli-based illness, though researchers are investigating potential vaccines. To reduce your chance of being exposed to E. coli, avoid swallowing water from lakes or pools, wash your hands often, avoid risky foods, and watch out for cross-contamination.
Mayo Clinic Minute: Avoiding summer E. coli infection
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Avoiding summer E. coli infection
Risky foods
Cook hamburgers until they're 160 F (71 C). Hamburgers should be well-done, with no pink showing. But color isn't a good guide to know if the meat is done cooking. Meat — especially if grilled — can brown before it's completely cooked. Use a meat thermometer to ensure that meat is heated to at least 160 F (71 C) at its thickest point.
Drink pasteurized milk, juice and cider. Any boxed or bottled juice kept at room temperature is likely to be pasteurized, even if the label doesn't say so. Avoid any unpasteurized dairy products or juice.
Wash raw produce thoroughly. Washing produce may not get rid of all E. coli — especially in leafy greens, which provide many places for the bacteria to attach themselves to. Careful rinsing can remove dirt and reduce the amount of bacteria that may be clinging to the produce.
Avoid cross-contamination
Wash utensils. Use hot soapy water on knives, countertops and cutting boards before and after they come into contact with fresh produce or raw meat.
Keep raw foods separate. This includes using separate cutting boards for raw meat and foods, such as vegetables and fruits. Never put cooked hamburgers on the same plate you used for raw patties.
Wash your hands. Wash your hands after preparing or eating food, using the bathroom, or changing diapers. Make sure that children also wash their hands before eating, after using the bathroom and after contact with animals.
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Avoiding summer E. coli infection
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ear Infection
Home Remedies
Warm compress on the ear.Olive oil drops in the ear for soothing.Garlic oil with antimicrobial properties.Elevate the head to ease drainage.
Symptoms=The onset of signs and symptoms of ear infection is usually rapid.In childrens,Ear pain, especially when lying down.Tugging or pulling at an ear,Trouble sleeping,Crying more than usual,Fussiness,Trouble hearing or responding to sounds,Loss of balance,Fever of 100 F (38 C) or higher,Drainage of fluid from the ear,Headache,Loss of appetite.Adults
Common signs and symptoms in adults include:Ear pain,Drainage of fluid from the ear,Trouble hearing
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Eating disorders
Home Remedies
To improve the chances of success in overcoming an eating disorder:
Find a mental health provider with expertise in eating disorders. Treatment is most effective when delivered by a provider with specialty training in eating disorders. Look for a provider with experience in treatments shown to be effective, such as FBT and CBT.
Follow your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions and try not to stray from meal plans. Follow your health care provider's instructions on physical activity and exercise.
Talk to your health care provider about appropriate vitamin and mineral supplements. If you're not eating well, chances are your body isn't getting all the nutrients it needs, such as vitamin D or iron. For healthy people, health care providers commonly recommend getting most vitamins and minerals from food.
Resist urges to weigh yourself. And don't check yourself in the mirror often. This may simply increase your drive to maintain habits that aren't healthy.
Don't isolate yourself from others. Caring family members and friends who have your best interests at heart want to see you get healthy.
Symptoms=Symptoms vary, depending on the type of eating disorder. Anorexia, bulimia and binge-eating disorder are the most common eating disorders. People with eating disorders can have all different body types and sizes.
Anorexia
Anorexia (an-o-REK-see-uh), also called anorexia nervosa, can be a life-threatening eating disorder. It includes an unhealthy low body weight, intense fear of gaining weight, and a view of weight and shape that is not realistic. Anorexia often involves using extreme efforts to control weight and shape, which often seriously interfere with health and daily life.
Anorexia may include severely limiting calories or cutting out certain kinds of foods or food groups. It may involve other methods to lose weight, such as exercising too much, using laxatives or diet aids, or vomiting after eating. Efforts to reduce weight can cause severe health problems, even for those who continue eating throughout the day or whose weight isn't extremely low.
Bulimia
Bulimia (buh-LEE-me-uh), also called bulimia nervosa, is a serious, sometimes life-threatening eating disorder. Bulimia includes episodes of bingeing, commonly followed by episodes of purging. Sometimes bulimia also includes severely limiting eating for periods of time. This often leads to stronger urges to binge eat and then purge.
Bingeing involves eating food — sometimes an extremely large amount — in a short period of time. During bingeing, people feel like they have no control over their eating and that they can't stop. After eating, due to guilt, shame or an intense fear of weight gain, purging is done to get rid of calories. Purging can include vomiting, exercising too much, not eating for a period of time, or using other methods, such as taking laxatives. Some people change medicine doses, such as changing insulin amounts, to try to lose weight.
Bulimia also involves being preoccupied with weight and body shape, with severe and harsh self-judgment of personal appearance.
Binge-eating disorder
Binge-eating disorder involves eating food in a short amount of time. When bingeing, it feels like there's no control over eating. But binge eating is not followed by purging. During a binge, people may eat food faster or eat more food than planned. Even when not hungry, eating may continue long past feeling uncomfortably full.
After a binge, people often feel a great deal of guilt, disgust or shame. They may fear gaining weight. They may try to severely limit eating for periods of time. This leads to increased urges to binge, setting up an unhealthy cycle. Embarrassment can lead to eating alone to hide bingeing. A new round of bingeing commonly occurs at least once a week.
Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder
Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder includes extremely limited eating or not eating certain foods. The pattern of eating often doesn't meet minimum daily nutrition needs. This may lead to problems with growth, development and functioning in daily life. But people with this disorder don't have fears about gaining weight or body size. Instead, they may not be interested in eating or may avoid food with a certain color, texture, smell or taste. Or they may worry about what can happen when eating. For example, they may have a fear of choking or vomiting, or they may worry about getting stomach problems.
Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder can be diagnosed in all ages, but it's more common in younger children. The disorder can result in major weight loss or failure to gain weight in childhood. A lack of proper nutrition can lead to major health problems.
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop an eating disorder. Eating disorders often start in the teen and young adult years. But they can occur at any age.
Certain factors may increase the risk of developing an eating disorder, including:
Family history. Eating disorders are more likely to occur in people who have parents or siblings who've had an eating disorder.
Other mental health issues. Trauma, anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and other mental health issues can increase the likelihood of an eating disorder.
Dieting and starvation. Frequent dieting is a risk factor for an eating disorder, especially with weight that is constantly going up and down when getting on and off new diets. There is strong evidence that many of the symptoms of an eating disorder are symptoms of starvation. Starvation affects the brain and can lead to mood changes, rigid thinking, anxiety and reduced appetite. This may cause severely limited eating or problem eating behaviors to continue and make it difficult to return to healthy eating habits.
A history of weight bullying. People who have been teased or bullied for their weight are more likely to develop problems with eating and eating disorders. This includes people who have been made to feel ashamed of their weight by peers, health care professionals, coaches, teachers or family members.
Stress. Whether it's heading off to college, moving, landing a new job, or a family or relationship issue, change can bring stress. And stress may increase the risk of an eating disorder.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent eating disorders, but you can take steps to develop healthy eating habits. If you have a child, you can help your child lower the risk of developing eating disorders.
Adults
To develop healthy eating habits and lifestyle behaviors:
Choose a healthy diet rich in whole grains, fruits and vegetables. Limit salt, sugar, alcohol, saturated fat and trans fats. Avoid extreme dieting. If you need to lose weight, talk to your health care provider or a dietitian to create a plan that meets your needs.
Don't use dietary supplements, laxatives or herbal products for weight loss.
Get enough physical activity. Each week, get at least 150 minutes of aerobic activity, such as brisk walking. Choose activities that you enjoy, so you're more likely to do them.
Seek help for mental health issues, such as depression, anxiety, or issues with self-esteem and body image.
For more guidelines on food and nutrition, as well as physical activity, go to health.gov.
Talk to a health care provider if you have concerns about your eating behaviors. Getting treatment early can prevent the problem from getting worse.
Children
Here are some ways to help your child develop healthy-eating behaviors:
Avoid dieting around your child. Family dining habits may influence the relationships children develop with food. Eating meals together gives you an opportunity to teach your child about the pitfalls of dieting. It also allows you to see whether your child is eating enough food and enough variety.
Talk to your child. There are many websites and other social media sites that promote dangerous ideas, such as viewing anorexia as a lifestyle choice rather than an eating disorder. Some sites encourage teens to start dieting. It's important to correct any wrong ideas like this. Talk to your child about the risks of making unhealthy eating choices.
Encourage and reinforce a healthy body image in your child, whatever their shape or size. Talk to your child about self-image and offer reassurance that body shapes can vary. Don't criticize your own body in front of your child. Messages of acceptance and respect can help build healthy self-esteem. They also can build resilience ⸺ the ability to recover quickly from difficult events. These skills can help children get through the challenging times of the teen and young adult years.
Ask your child's health care provider for help. At well-child visits, health care providers may be able to identify early signs of an eating disorder. They can ask children questions about their eating habits. These visits can include checks of height and weight percentiles and body mass index, which can alert you and your child's provider to any big changes.
Reach out to help
If you notice a family member or friend who seems to show signs of an eating disorder, consider talking to that person about your concern for their well-being. You may not be able to prevent an eating disorder from developing, but reaching out with compassion may encourage the person to seek treatment.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ebstein anomaly
Home Remedies
Some people who are born with a heart problem may need to limit exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Ask your health care team which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child.
Symptoms=Some babies born with Ebstein anomaly have few or no symptoms. Others have a tricuspid valve that leaks severely and causes more-noticeable problems. Sometimes symptoms don't occur until later in life.
Symptoms of Ebstein anomaly may include:
Blue or gray lips or fingernails. Depending on skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fatigue.
Feeling of a pounding or rapid heartbeat or irregular heartbeats.
Shortness of breath, especially with activity.
Risk Factors
Ebstein anomaly occurs as the baby grows in the womb during pregnancy.
During the first six weeks of pregnancy, a baby's heart begins to form and starts beating. The major blood vessels that run to and from the heart also begin to develop during this critical time.
It's at this point in a baby's development that congenital heart problems may begin to develop. Researchers aren't sure exactly what increases the risk of a baby having Ebstein anomaly. Genetics and environmental factors are believed be involved. Using some medicines during pregnancy, such as lithium, might increase the risk of Ebstein anomaly in the child.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/31/hb7_ebsteinsanomaly-8col.jpg
Condition
Ectropion
Home Remedies
These lifestyle tips may relieve your discomfort from ectropion:
Use eye lubricants. Artificial tears and eye ointments can help keep your cornea lubricated and prevent vision-threatening damage. Using an eye ointment and wearing a moisture shield over your eye is particularly useful overnight.
Wipe your eyes carefully. Constantly wiping watery eyes can make your under-eye muscles and tendons stretch even further, worsening your ectropion. Wipe from the outer eye up and in toward the nose.
Symptoms=Normally when you blink, your eyelids distribute tears evenly across your eyes, keeping the surfaces of the eyes lubricated. These tears drain into small openings on the inner part of your eyelids (puncta).
If you have ectropion, your lower lid pulls away from your eye and tears don't drain properly into the puncta. The resulting signs and symptoms can include:
Watery eyes (excessive tearing). Without proper drainage, your tears may pool and constantly flow over your eyelids.
Excessive dryness. Ectropion can cause your eyes to feel dry, gritty and sandy.
Irritation. Stagnant tears or dryness can irritate your eyes, causing a burning sensation and redness in your eyelids and the whites of your eyes.
Sensitivity to light. Stagnant tears or dry eyes can irritate the surface of the cornea, making you sensitive to light.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing ectropion include:
Age. The most common cause of ectropion is weakening muscle tissue associated with aging.
Previous eye surgeries. People who have had eyelid surgery are at higher risk of developing ectropion later.
Previous cancer, burns or trauma. If you've had spots of skin cancer on your face, facial burns or trauma, you're at higher risk of developing ectropion.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2019/01/04/15/02/ectropion-8col.jpg
Condition
Edema
Home Remedies
Compression stockings
Enlarge image
The following may help decrease edema and keep it from coming back. Talk to your health care provider about which of these might help you.
Use pressure. If edema affects an arm or leg, wearing compression stockings, sleeves or gloves might help. These garments keep pressure on the limbs to prevent fluid from building up. Usually worn after the swelling goes down, they help prevent more swelling.
For pregnant people, wearing support stockings during air travel might help.
Move. Moving and using the muscles in the part of the body that's swollen, especially the legs, might help move fluid back toward the heart. A health care provider can talk about exercises that might reduce swelling.
Raise. Hold the swollen part of the body above the level of the heart several times a day. Sometimes, raising the swollen area during sleep can be helpful.
Massage. Stroking the affected area toward the heart using firm, but not painful, pressure might help move fluid out of that area.
Protect. Keep the swollen area clean and free from injury. Use lotion or cream. Dry, cracked skin is more open to scrapes, cuts and infection. Always wear socks or shoes on the feet if that's where the swelling usually is.
Reduce salt. A health care provider can talk about limiting salt. Salt can increase fluid buildup and worsen edema.
Symptoms=Edema in foot and ankle
Enlarge image
Symptoms of edema include:
Swelling or puffiness of the tissue right under the skin, especially in legs or arms.
Stretched or shiny skin.
Skin that holds a dimple, also known as pitting, after it's been pressed for a few seconds.
Swelling of the belly, also called the abdomen, so that it's bigger than usual.
Feeling of leg heaviness.
Risk Factors
The following increases the risk of edema:
Being pregnant.
Taking certain medicines.
Having a long-lasting illness, such as congestive heart failure or liver or kidney disease.
Having surgery that involves a lymph node.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
Home Remedies
If you have Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, it's important to prevent injuries. Here are a few things you can do to safeguard yourself.
Choose sports wisely. Walking, swimming, tai chi, recreational biking, or using an elliptical machine or a stationary bike are all good choices. Avoid contact sports, weightlifting and other activities that increase your risk of injury. Minimize stress on your hips, knees and ankles.
Rest your jaw. To protect your jaw joint, avoid chewing gum, hard rolls and ice. Take breaks during dental work to close your mouth.
Wear supportive shoes. To help prevent ankle sprains, wear laced boots with good arch support.
Improve sleep. Body pillows and super-dense foam mattresses can provide support and cushioning for painful joints. Sleeping on your side may also help.
Symptoms=There are many different types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, but the most common signs and symptoms include:
Overly flexible joints. Because the connective tissue that holds joints together is looser, your joints can move far past the normal range of motion. Joint pain and dislocations are common.
Stretchy skin. Weakened connective tissue allows your skin to stretch much more than usual. You may be able to pull a pinch of skin up away from your flesh, but it will snap right back into place when you let go. Your skin might also feel exceptionally soft and velvety.
Fragile skin. Damaged skin often doesn't heal well. For example, the stitches used to close a wound often will tear out and leave a gaping scar. These scars may look thin and crinkly.
Symptom severity can vary from person to person and depends on the specific type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome that you have. The most common type is called hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
People who have vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome often share distinctive facial features of a thin nose, thin upper lip, small earlobes and prominent eyes. They also have thin, translucent skin that bruises very easily. In fair-skinned people, the underlying blood vessels are very visible through the skin.
Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome can weaken your heart's largest artery (aorta), as well as the arteries to other regions of your body. A rupture of any of these larger blood vessels can be fatal. The vascular type can also weaken the walls of the uterus or large intestines — which also may rupture.
Causes
Different types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are associated with a variety of genetic causes, some of which are inherited and passed on from parent to child. If you have the most common form, hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, there's a 50% chance that you'll pass on the gene to each of your children.
Complications
Complications depend on the types of signs and symptoms you have. For example, overly flexible joints can result in joint dislocations and early-onset arthritis. Fragile skin may develop prominent scarring.
People who have vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are at risk of often fatal ruptures of major blood vessels. Some organs, such as the uterus and intestines, also may rupture. Pregnancy can increase the risk of a rupture in the uterus.
Prevention
If you have a personal or family history of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and you're thinking about starting a family, you may benefit from talking to a genetic counselor — a health care professional trained to assess the risk of inherited disorders. Genetic counseling can help you understand the inheritance pattern of the type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome that affects you and the risks it poses for your children.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
If you have a personal or family history of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and you're thinking about starting a family, you may benefit from talking to a genetic counselor — a health care professional trained to assess the risk of inherited disorders. Genetic counseling can help you understand the inheritance pattern of the type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome that affects you and the risks it poses for your children.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis
Home Remedies
If you find a tick on your body, don't be alarmed. Removing a tick promptly is a good defense against transmission of bacteria. Use the following steps:
Gloves. Wear medical gloves or similar gloves if possible to protect your hands.
Tweezers. Use fine-tipped tweezers to grab the tick firmly near its head or mouth, and as close to the skin as possible.
Removal. Pull the tick's body away your skin steadily and slowly without jerking or twisting it. If parts of the mouth remain, remove them with clean tweezers.
Disposal. Kill the tick by putting it in alcohol. Do not crush the tick to avoid exposure to possible bacteria. The dead tick can be flushed, lightly wrapped in tape before throwing in the trash or stored in a freezer.
Storage. A tick can be tested at a later date if you suspect infection. Place the tick in a container, label it with the date, and place it in the freezer.
Cleanup. Use soap and water to wash your hands after handling the tick and around the tick bite. Clean the site and your hands with rubbing alcohol.
Don't apply petroleum jelly, fingernail polish, rubbing alcohol or a hot match to the tick.
Monitor the bite site
A small, red bump, similar to the bump of a mosquito bite, often appears at the site of a tick bite or tick removal and resolves over a few days. This is normal and should not cause alarm.
If you experience continued irritation at the site or experience any signs or symptoms that may indicate a tick-borne infection, contact your doctor.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis are generally the same, although they usually are more severe in ehrlichiosis. Symptoms of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis, which vary widely from person to person, include:
Moderate fever
Chills
Headache
Muscles aches or pains
General feeling of being unwell
Joint pain
Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Loss of appetite
Additional signs and symptoms associated with ehrlichiosis but rarely with anaplasmosis include:
Confusion or changes in mental state
Rash
Some people may be infected and not develop symptoms.
Risk Factors
Ticks live near the ground in wooded or brushy areas. They do not fly or jump, so they can only reach a host who brushes up against them. Factors that increase your risk of a tick bite include:
Being outdoors in warm spring and summer months
Participating in activities in wooded areas, such as camping, hiking or hunting
Wearing clothes that leave your skin exposed in tick-friendly habitat
Prevention
The best way to steer clear of ehrlichiosis or anaplasmosis is to avoid tick bites when you are outdoors. Most ticks attach themselves to your lower legs and feet as you walk or work in grassy, wooded areas or overgrown fields. After a tick attaches to your body, it usually crawls upward to find a location to burrow into your skin.
If you are going to be working or playing in an area that is a likely tick habitat, follow these tips to protect yourself.
Mayo Clinic Minute: Ways to avoid ticks
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Ways to avoid ticks
Use tick repellents
Spray your outdoor clothing, shoes, tent or other camping gear with a repellent that has 0.5% permethrin. Some gear and clothing may be pre-treated with permethrin.
Use an insect repellent registered with the Environmental Protection Agency on any exposed skin, except your face. These include repellents that contain DEET, picaridin, IR3535, oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE), para-menthane-diol (PMD) or 2-undecanone.
Do not use products with OLE or PMD on children under age 3.
Dress for protection
Wear light-colored clothing that makes it easier for you or others to see ticks on your clothing before they bite.
Avoid open-toed shoes or sandals.
Wear long-sleeved shirts tucked into your pants and long pants tucked into your socks.
Check for ticks
Shower as soon as possible to wash off any loose ticks and check for ticks that may have burrowed.
Use a mirror to check your body thoroughly. Pay attention to your underarms, hair and hairline, ears, waist, between your legs, behind your knees, and inside your bellybutton.
Check your gear. Dry your clothes and gear on hot for at least 10 minutes to kill ticks before cleaning them.
Other tips
Do a daily inspection for ticks on any pet that spends time outdoors.
Stay on clear paths as much as possible in wooded and grassy areas.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Eisenmenger syndrome
Home Remedies
If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, these tips may help improve your quality of life.
Drink plenty of fluids. Ask your healthcare team how much fluid you need each day. You may need to drink more fluids when you are sick or when you are in a heated room or on an airplane.
Ask if exercise and sports are OK. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, you shouldn't do really hard exercise or sports. But you may be able to do less intense physical activities. Ask your healthcare professional what type of physical activity is best for you.
Avoid high altitudes. Because of the low oxygen levels at high altitudes, people with Eisenmenger syndrome should not spend a lot of time at high altitudes. The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association say to avoid exposure to altitudes of 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) or more above sea level. If you plan to take an airplane trip or travel to high altitudes, ask your healthcare professional for specific guidance.
Avoid situations that can greatly lower blood pressure. For example, do not sit in a hot tub or sauna or take long hot baths or showers. Such activities lower blood pressure and may cause fainting or other complications. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, also avoid activities that cause prolonged straining, such as lifting heavy objects or weights.
Use medicines and supplements with care. Many supplements and medicines, including those bought without a prescription, can affect blood pressure. Some may increase the risk of bleeding or affect kidney function in those who have Eisenmenger syndrome. Talk with your healthcare team before taking any new supplements or medicines.
Get a flu shot. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, it's especially important to prevent respiratory infections such as the flu. Get a flu shot every year and a pneumonia vaccination every five years.
Do not smoke or use tobacco. Also stay away from secondhand smoke. Smoking can increase the risk of Eisenmenger syndrome complications.
Birth control and pregnancy
If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, pregnancy poses serious health risks — and can be life-threatening — for you and the baby. Healthcare professionals say it's critical that pregnancy be avoided if you have Eisenmenger syndrome.
Effective contraceptive methods include vasectomy, an intrauterine device (IUD) or a contraceptive hormonal implant such as etonogestrel (Nexplanon). Tying of the fallopian tubes, also called tubal ligation, is a very effective form of contraception. But it's less often recommended due to the risks posed by having even minor surgery.
Birth control pills containing estrogen aren't recommended for those who have Eisenmenger syndrome. Estrogen increases the risk of developing blood clots that could potentially block an artery to the heart, brain or lungs. Using a barrier method alone, such as a condom or diaphragm, isn't recommended due to the risk of failure.
Symptoms=Symptoms of Eisenmenger syndrome include:
Blue or gray skin. Depending on skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Chest pain or tightness.
Coughing up blood.
Dizziness or fainting.
Easily tiring and shortness of breath with activity.
Headaches.
Large, rounded fingernails or toenails, called clubbing.
Numbness or tingling in fingers or toes.
Shortness of breath while at rest.
Skipped or racing heartbeats.
Risk Factors
A family history of congenital heart defects increases the risk of similar heart problems in a baby. If you've been diagnosed with Eisenmenger syndrome, talk with your healthcare professional about screening other family members for congenital heart defects.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/31/ds01201_im04666_mcdc7_eisenmenger_jpg.jpg
Condition
Emphysema
Home Remedies
If you have emphysema, you can take a number of steps to halt its progression and to protect yourself from complications:
Stop smoking. This is the most important measure you can take for your overall health and the only one that might halt the progression of emphysema. Join a smoking cessation program if you need help giving up smoking. As much as possible, avoid secondhand smoke.
Avoid other respiratory irritants. These include fumes from paint and automobile exhaust, some cooking odors, certain perfumes, even burning candles and incense. Change furnace and air conditioner filters regularly to limit pollutants.
Exercise regularly. Try not to let your breathing problems keep you from getting regular exercise, which can significantly increase your lung capacity.
Protect yourself from cold air. Cold air can cause spasms of the bronchial passages, making it even more difficult to breathe. During cold weather, wear a soft scarf or a cold-air mask — available from a pharmacy — over your mouth and nose before going outside, to warm the air entering your lungs.
Get recommended vaccinations. Be sure to get an annual flu shot and pneumonia vaccinations as advised by your doctor.
Prevent respiratory infections. Do your best to avoid direct contact with people who have a cold or the flu. If you have to mingle with large groups of people during cold and flu season, wear a face mask, wash your hands frequently and carry a small bottle of alcohol-based hand sanitizer to use when needed.
Symptoms=You can have emphysema for many years without noticing any signs or symptoms. The main symptom of emphysema is shortness of breath, which usually begins gradually.
You may start avoiding activities that cause you to be short of breath, so the symptom doesn't become a problem until it starts interfering with daily tasks. Emphysema eventually causes shortness of breath even while you're at rest.
When to see a doctor
See your doctor if you've had unexplained shortness of breath for several months, especially if it's getting worse or it's interfering with your daily activities. Don't ignore it by telling yourself it's because you're aging or out of shape. Seek immediate medical attention if:
You're so short of breath, you can't climb stairs
Your lips or fingernails turn blue or gray with exertion
You're not mentally alert
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The main cause of emphysema is long-term exposure to airborne irritants, including:
Tobacco smoke
Marijuana smoke
Air pollution
Chemical fumes and dust
Rarely, emphysema is caused by an inherited deficiency of a protein that protects the elastic structures in the lungs. It's called alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency emphysema.
Risk factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing emphysema include:
Smoking. Emphysema is most likely to develop in cigarette smokers, but cigar and pipe smokers also are susceptible. The risk for all types of smokers increases with the number of years and amount of tobacco smoked.
Age. Although the lung damage that occurs in emphysema develops gradually, most people with tobacco-related emphysema begin to experience symptoms of the disease between the ages of 40 and 60.
Exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke, also known as passive or environmental tobacco smoke, is smoke that you inadvertently inhale from someone else's cigarette, pipe or cigar. Being around secondhand smoke increases your risk of emphysema.
Occupational exposure to fumes or dust. If you breathe fumes from certain chemicals or dust from grain, cotton, wood or mining products, you're more likely to develop emphysema. This risk is even greater if you smoke.
Exposure to indoor and outdoor pollution. Breathing indoor pollutants, such as fumes from heating fuel, as well as outdoor pollutants — car exhaust, for instance — increases your risk of emphysema.
Complications
People who have emphysema are also more likely to develop:
Collapsed lung (pneumothorax). A collapsed lung can be life-threatening in people who have severe emphysema, because the function of their lungs is already so compromised. This is uncommon but serious when it occurs.
Heart problems. Emphysema can increase the pressure in the arteries that connect the heart and lungs. This can cause a condition called cor pulmonale, in which a section of the heart expands and weakens.
Large holes in the lungs (bullae). Some people with emphysema develop empty spaces in the lungs called bullae. They can be as large as half the lung. In addition to reducing the amount of space available for the lung to expand, giant bullae can increase your risk of pneumothorax.
More Information
Hyperinflated lungs: What does it mean?
Prevention
To prevent emphysema, don't smoke and avoid breathing secondhand smoke. Wear a mask to protect your lungs if you work with chemical fumes or dust.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing emphysema include:
Smoking. Emphysema is most likely to develop in cigarette smokers, but cigar and pipe smokers also are susceptible. The risk for all types of smokers increases with the number of years and amount of tobacco smoked.
Age. Although the lung damage that occurs in emphysema develops gradually, most people with tobacco-related emphysema begin to experience symptoms of the disease between the ages of 40 and 60.
Exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke, also known as passive or environmental tobacco smoke, is smoke that you inadvertently inhale from someone else's cigarette, pipe or cigar. Being around secondhand smoke increases your risk of emphysema.
Occupational exposure to fumes or dust. If you breathe fumes from certain chemicals or dust from grain, cotton, wood or mining products, you're more likely to develop emphysema. This risk is even greater if you smoke.
Exposure to indoor and outdoor pollution. Breathing indoor pollutants, such as fumes from heating fuel, as well as outdoor pollutants — car exhaust, for instance — increases your risk of emphysema.
Prevention
To prevent emphysema, don't smoke and avoid breathing secondhand smoke. Wear a mask to protect your lungs if you work with chemical fumes or dust.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/40/ds00916_-ds00296_im04560_mcdc7_emphysemathu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Endometriosis
Home Remedies
It may take time to find a treatment that works. Until then, you can try some things at home to ease your pain.
Warm baths and a heating pad can help relax pelvic muscles. This lessens cramping and pain.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help ease painful menstrual cramps. NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
You also can ask your health care team if physical therapy might help. A therapist can teach you how to relax muscles that support the uterus, called the pelvic floor. Relaxing these tight muscles may help pelvic pain linked with endometriosis feel less intense.
Symptoms=The main symptom of endometriosis is pelvic pain. It's often linked with menstrual periods. Although many people have cramping during their periods, those with endometriosis often describe menstrual pain that's far worse than usual. The pain also may become worse over time.
Common symptoms of endometriosis include:
Painful periods. Pelvic pain and cramping may start before a menstrual period and last for days into it. You also may have lower back and stomach pain. Another name for painful periods is dysmenorrhea.
Pain with sex. Pain during or after sex is common with endometriosis.
Pain with bowel movements or urination. You're most likely to have these symptoms before or during a menstrual period.
Excessive bleeding. Sometimes, you may have heavy menstrual periods or bleeding between periods.
Infertility. For some people, endometriosis is first found during tests for infertility treatment.
Other symptoms. You may have fatigue, diarrhea, constipation, bloating or nausea. These symptoms are more common before or during menstrual periods.
The seriousness of your pain may not be a sign of the number or extent of endometriosis growths in your body. You could have a small amount of tissue with bad pain. Or you could have lots of endometriosis tissue with little or no pain.
Still, some people with endometriosis have no symptoms. Often, they find out they have the condition when they can't get pregnant or after they get surgery for another reason.
For those with symptoms, endometriosis sometimes may seem like other conditions that can cause pelvic pain. These include pelvic inflammatory disease or ovarian cysts. Or it may be confused with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), which causes bouts of diarrhea, constipation and stomach cramps. IBS also can happen along with endometriosis. This makes it harder for your health care team to find the exact cause of your symptoms.
Risk Factors
Factors that raise the risk of endometriosis include:
Never giving birth.
Starting your period at an early age.
Going through menopause at an older age.
Short menstrual cycles — for instance, less than 27 days.
Heavy menstrual periods that last longer than seven days.
Having higher levels of estrogen in your body or a greater lifetime exposure to estrogen your body produces.
Low body mass index.
One or more relatives with endometriosis, such as a mother, aunt or sister.
Any health condition that prevents blood from flowing out of the body during menstrual periods also can be an endometriosis risk factor. So can conditions of the reproductive tract.
Endometriosis symptoms often happen years after menstruation starts. The symptoms may get better for a time with pregnancy. Pain may become milder over time with menopause, unless you take estrogen therapy.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
End-stage renal disease
Home Remedies
As part of your treatment for kidney disease, your health care provider might recommend that you follow a special diet to help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Ask for a referral to a registered dietitian with expertise in kidney disease to learn ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Depending on your situation, kidney function and overall health, your dietitian might recommend that you:
Avoid products with added salt. Lower the amount of sodium you eat each day by avoiding products with added salt, including many convenience foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Choose lower potassium foods. Your dietitian might recommend that you choose lower potassium foods at each meal. High-potassium foods include bananas, oranges, potatoes, spinach and tomatoes.
Examples of low-potassium foods include apples, cabbage, carrots, green beans, grapes and strawberries. Be aware that many salt substitutes contain potassium, so you generally should avoid them if you have kidney failure.
Limit your protein. Your dietitian will estimate the grams of protein you need each day and make recommendations based on that amount. High-protein foods include lean meats, eggs, milk, cheese and beans. Low-protein foods include vegetables, fruits, breads and cereals.
Symptoms=Early in chronic kidney disease, you might have no signs or symptoms. As chronic kidney disease progresses to end-stage renal disease, signs and symptoms might include:
Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Fatigue and weakness
Changes in how much you urinate
Chest pain, if fluid builds up around the lining of the heart
Shortness of breath, if fluid builds up in the lungs
Swelling of feet and ankles
High blood pressure (hypertension) that's difficult to control
Headaches
Difficulty sleeping
Decreased mental sharpness
Muscle twitches and cramps
Persistent itching
Metallic taste
Signs and symptoms of kidney disease are often nonspecific, meaning they can also be caused by other illnesses. Because your kidneys can make up for lost function, signs and symptoms might not appear until irreversible damage has occurred.
When to seek care
Make an appointment with your health care provider if you have signs or symptoms of kidney disease.
If you have a medical condition that increases your risk of kidney disease, your care provider is likely to monitor your kidney function with urine and blood tests and your blood pressure during regular office visits. Ask your provider whether these tests are necessary for you.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Healthy kidney vs. diseased kidney
Enlarge image
Polycystic kidney
Enlarge image
Kidney disease occurs when a disease or condition impairs kidney function, causing kidney damage to worsen over several months or years. For some people, kidney damage can continue to progress even after the underlying condition is resolved.
Diseases and conditions that can lead to kidney disease include:
Type 1 or type 2 diabetes
High blood pressure
Glomerulonephritis (gloe-mer-u-low-nuh-FRY-tis) — an inflammation of the kidney's filtering units (glomeruli)
Interstitial nephritis (in-tur-STISH-ul nuh-FRY-tis), an inflammation of the kidney's tubules and surrounding structures
Polycystic kidney disease or other inherited kidney diseases
Prolonged obstruction of the urinary tract, from conditions such as enlarged prostate, kidney stones and some cancers
Vesicoureteral (ves-ih-koe-yoo-REE-tur-ul) reflux, a condition that causes urine to back up into your kidneys
Recurrent kidney infection, also called pyelonephritis (pie-uh-low-nuh-FRY-tis)
Risk factors
Certain factors increase the risk that chronic kidney disease will progress more quickly to end-stage renal disease, including:
Diabetes with poor blood sugar control
Kidney disease that affects the glomeruli, the structures in the kidneys that filter wastes from the blood
Polycystic kidney disease
High blood pressure
Tobacco use
Black, Hispanic, Asian, Pacific Islander or American Indian heritage
Family history of kidney failure
Older age
Frequent use of medications that could be damaging to the kidney
Complications
Kidney damage, once it occurs, can't be reversed. Potential complications can affect almost any part of your body and can include:
Fluid retention, which could lead to swelling in your arms and legs, high blood pressure, or fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema)
A sudden rise in potassium levels in your blood (hyperkalemia), which could impair your heart's ability to function and may be life-threatening
Heart disease
Weak bones and an increased risk of bone fractures
Anemia
Decreased sex drive, erectile dysfunction or reduced fertility
Damage to your central nervous system, which can cause difficulty concentrating, personality changes or seizures
Decreased immune response, which makes you more vulnerable to infection
Pericarditis, an inflammation of the saclike membrane that envelops your heart (pericardium)
Pregnancy complications that carry risks for the mother and the developing fetus
Malnutrition
Irreversible damage to your kidneys (end-stage kidney disease), eventually requiring either dialysis or a kidney transplant for survival
Prevention
If you have kidney disease, you may be able to slow its progress by making healthy lifestyle choices:
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight
Be active most days
Limit protein and eat a balanced diet of nutritious, low-sodium foods
Control your blood pressure
Take your medications as prescribed
Have your cholesterol levels checked every year
Control your blood sugar level
Don't smoke or use tobacco products
Get regular checkups



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Certain factors increase the risk that chronic kidney disease will progress more quickly to end-stage renal disease, including:
Diabetes with poor blood sugar control
Kidney disease that affects the glomeruli, the structures in the kidneys that filter wastes from the blood
Polycystic kidney disease
High blood pressure
Tobacco use
Black, Hispanic, Asian, Pacific Islander or American Indian heritage
Family history of kidney failure
Older age
Frequent use of medications that could be damaging to the kidney
Prevention
If you have kidney disease, you may be able to slow its progress by making healthy lifestyle choices:
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight
Be active most days
Limit protein and eat a balanced diet of nutritious, low-sodium foods
Control your blood pressure
Take your medications as prescribed
Have your cholesterol levels checked every year
Control your blood sugar level
Don't smoke or use tobacco products
Get regular checkups
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly)
Home Remedies
Avoid contact sports — such as soccer, football and hockey — and limit other activities as recommended to reduce the risk of a ruptured spleen.
It's also important to wear a seat belt. If you're in a car accident, a seat belt can help protect your spleen.
Finally, be sure to keep your vaccinations up to date because your risk of infection is increased. That means at least an annual flu shot, and a tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis booster every 10 years. Ask your doctor if you need other vaccines.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=An enlarged spleen typically causes no signs or symptoms, but sometimes it causes:
Pain or fullness in the left upper belly that can spread to the left shoulder
A feeling of fullness without eating or after eating a small amount because the spleen is pressing on your stomach
Low red blood cells (anemia)
Frequent infections
Bleeding easily
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop an enlarged spleen at any age, but certain groups are at higher risk, including:
Children and young adults with infections, such as mononucleosis
People who have Gaucher disease, Niemann-Pick disease, and several other inherited metabolic disorders affecting the liver and spleen
People who live in or travel to areas where malaria is common
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Entropion
Home Remedies
To relieve the symptoms of entropion until you have surgery, you can try:
Eye lubricants. Artificial tears and eye ointments help protect your cornea and keep it lubricated.
Skin tape. Special transparent skin tape can be applied to your eyelid to keep it from turning in. Place one end of the tape near your lower eyelashes, then pull down gently and attach the other end of the tape to your upper cheek. Ask your doctor to demonstrate proper technique and placement of the tape.
Symptoms=The signs and symptoms of entropion result from the friction of your eyelashes and outer eyelid against the surface of your eye. You may experience:
The feeling that something is in your eye
Eye redness
Eye irritation or pain
Sensitivity to light and wind
Watery eyes (excessive tearing)
Mucous discharge and eyelid crusting
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing entropion include:
Age. The older you are, the greater your chances of developing the condition.
Previous burns or trauma. If you've had a burn or other injury on your face, the resulting scar tissue may put you at higher risk of developing entropion.
Trachoma infection. Because trachoma can scar the inner eyelids, people who have had this infection are more likely to develop entropion.
Prevention
Generally, entropion isn't preventable. You may be able to prevent the type caused by trachoma infection. If your eyes become red and irritated after you visit an area where trachoma infection is common, seek evaluation and treatment immediately.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/23/ds01094_im04485_mcdc7_entropionthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Eosinophilic esophagitis
Home Remedies
If you often have heartburn, these lifestyle changes may help reduce the frequency or severity of symptoms:
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your belly, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus. If your weight is at a healthy level, work to maintain it. If you are overweight or obese, work to slowly lose weight — no more than 1 or 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kilogram) a week. Ask your provider for help in creating a weight-loss strategy that will work for you.
Avoid foods and drinks that trigger heartburn. Common triggers, such as fatty or fried foods, tomato sauce, alcohol, chocolate, mint, garlic, onion, and caffeine, may make heartburn worse. Avoid foods that you know will trigger your heartburn.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn at night or while trying to sleep, put gravity to work for you. Place wood or cement blocks under the feet of your bed so that the head end is raised by 6 to 9 inches (152 to 228 millimeters). If it's not possible to elevate your bed, insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms include:
Adults:
Difficulty swallowing, also called dysphagia
Food getting stuck in the esophagus after swallowing, also known as impaction
Chest pain that is often centrally located and does not respond to antacids
Backflow of undigested food, known as regurgitation
Children:
Difficulty feeding, in infants
Difficulty eating, in children
Vomiting
Abdominal pain
Difficulty swallowing, also called dysphagia
Food getting stuck in the esophagus after swallowing, also known as impaction
No response to GERD medication
Failure to thrive, including poor growth, malnutrition and weight loss
Risk Factors
The following risk factors are associated with eosinophilic esophagitis:
Climate. People who live in a cold or dry climate are more likely than those in other climates to be diagnosed with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Season. You're more likely to be diagnosed between the spring and fall, probably because levels of pollen and other allergens are higher and people are more likely to be outdoors.
Sex. Eosinophilic esophagitis is more common in males than in females.
Family history. Researchers think that eosinophilic esophagitis may have a genetic component because the condition sometimes runs in families. If your family members have eosinophilic esophagitis, you have a greater chance of being diagnosed.
Allergies and asthma. If you have food or environmental allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or a chronic respiratory disease, you're more likely to be diagnosed with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Age. Originally, eosinophilic esophagitis was thought to be a childhood disease, but now it is known to be common in adults as well. The symptoms differ somewhat between children and adults.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/47/ds01154_im04155_mcdc7_eosinophilic_esophagitisthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Epidermoid cysts
Home Remedies
You can't stop epidermoid cysts from forming. But you can help prevent scarring and infection by:
Not squeezing a cyst yourself
Placing a warm, moist cloth over the area to help the cyst drain and heal
Symptoms=Epidermoid cyst signs and symptoms include:
A small, round bump under the skin, often on the face, neck or trunk
A tiny blackhead plugging the central opening of the cyst
A thick, smelly, cheesy substance that leaks from the cyst
An inflamed or infected bump
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop an epidermoid cyst, but these factors make it more likely:
Being past puberty.
Having a rare, inherited condition called Gardner syndrome.
Injuring the skin.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Epidermolysis bullosa
Home Remedies
You can take steps at home to care for blisters and prevent new ones from forming. Talk with your health care provider about how to care for wounds and provide good nutrition.
Caring for blisters
Your health care provider can show you how to care for blisters properly and advise you on ways to prevent them. Ask about safe ways to drain blisters before they get too large. Ask about recommended products for keeping the affected areas moist. This helps with healing and preventing infection.
In general, take these steps:
Wash your hands. Wash your hands before touching blisters or changing dressings.
Control pain. About 30 minutes before a dressing change or other painful procedure, older children and adults may take a prescription-strength pain medication. For people who don't respond to pain relievers, other options include antiseizure drugs such as gabapentin.
Cleanse skin daily. To cleanse a wound, soak it for 5 to 10 minutes in a mild solution of salt and water. Other options are mild solutions of diluted vinegar or bleach. Soaking loosens stuck bandages and helps reduce the pain of changing bandages. Rinse with lukewarm water.
Puncture new blisters. This prevents them from spreading. Use a sterile needle to puncture each new blister in two spots. But leave the roof of the blister intact to allow for drainage while protecting the underlying skin.
Apply treated dressings. Spread petroleum jelly or other thick moisturizer on a nonstick bandage (Mepilex, Telfa, Vaseline gauze). Then gently place the bandage on the wound. Secure the bandage with rolled gauze if needed.
Wrap blistered hands and feet daily. With some severe forms of this condition, daily wraps help prevent contractures and fusion of the fingers and toes. Special wraps and gauze dressings are useful for this treatment.
Watch for signs of infection. If you notice heat, pus or lines leading from the blister, talk with your health care provider about prescription antibiotics.
Keep it cool. Blistering is often worsened by heat and warm conditions.
Providing good nutrition
A varied, nutritious diet promotes growth and development in children and helps wounds heal. If blisters in the mouth or throat make it difficult to eat, here are some suggestions:
For babies with mild epidermolysis bullosa, breastfeeding is fine. Otherwise, minimize injury from feeding by using bottle nipples designed for premature infants, a syringe or a rubber-tipped medicine dropper. Try softening bottle nipples in warm boiled water.
For older children, serve nutritious, soft foods that are easy to swallow, such as vegetable soup and fruit smoothies. Puree solid foods with broth or milk.
Serve food and beverages lukewarm, at room temperature or cold.
Talk with your health care provider about how you or your child can get all the needed nutrients and vitamins.
Symptoms=Epidermolysis bullosa symptoms include:
Fragile skin that blisters easily, especially on the palms and feet
Nails that are thick or unformed
Blisters inside the mouth and throat
Scalp blistering and hair loss (scarring alopecia)
Skin that looks thin
Tiny pimple-like bumps (milia)
Dental problems, such as tooth decay
Difficulty swallowing
Itchy, painful skin
Usually epidermolysis bullosa blisters are noticed during infancy. But it's not uncommon for them to appear when a toddler first begins to walk or when an older child begins new activities that cause more friction on the soles of the feet.
Risk Factors
The major risk factor for developing epidermolysis bullosa is having a family history of the disorder.
Prevention
It's not possible to prevent epidermolysis bullosa. But these steps may help prevent blisters and infection.
Handle your child gently. Your infant or child needs cuddling, but be very gentle. To pick up a child with epidermolysis bullosa, place the child on soft material and give support under the buttocks and behind the neck. Don't lift the child from under the arms.
Take special care with the diaper area. If your child wears diapers, remove the elastic bands and avoid cleansing wipes. Line the diaper with a nonstick dressing or spread it with a thick layer of zinc oxide paste.
Keep the home environment cool. Try to keep your home cool and the temperature steady.
Keep the skin moist. Gently apply moisturizer as needed throughout the day.
Dress your child in soft clothes. Use soft clothing that's simple to get on and off. It may help to remove labels and put on clothing seam-side out to reduce scratching. Try sewing foam pads into the lining of clothing by elbows, knees and other pressure points. Use soft special shoes, if possible.
Prevent scratching. Trim your child's fingernails regularly.
Encourage your child to be active. As your child grows, encourage activities that reduce the risk of skin injury. Swimming is a good option. For children with mild forms of epidermolysis bullosa, they can protect the skin by wearing long pants and sleeves for outdoor activities.
Cover hard surfaces. Consider padding a car seat or bathing tub with sheepskin, foam or a thick towel. Soft cotton or silk can be used as a top layer over the padding.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Epididymitis
Home Remedies
Epididymitis often causes a lot of pain. Try these tips to ease your discomfort:
Rest in bed.
Lie down so that your scrotum is elevated.
Apply cold packs to your scrotum as tolerated.
Wear an athletic supporter.
Avoid lifting heavy objects.
Avoid sex until your infection has cleared.
Symptoms=Epididymitis
Enlarge image
Symptoms of epididymitis might include:
A swollen, discolored or warm scrotum
Testicle pain and tenderness, usually on one side, that often comes on slowly
Pain when you pass urine
An urgent or frequent need to urinate
Discharge from the penis
Pain or discomfort in the lower abdomen or pelvic area
Blood in the semen
Less commonly, fever
Chronic epididymitis
Epididymitis that lasts longer than six weeks or that happens over and over again is considered chronic. Symptoms of chronic epididymitis might come on slowly. Sometimes the cause of chronic epididymitis isn't able to be found.
Risk Factors
Certain sexual behaviors that can lead to STIs put you at risk of sexually transmitted epididymitis, including having:
Sex with a partner who has an STI
Sex without a condom
Anal sex
A history of STIs
Risk factors for epididymitis that's not sexually transmitted include:
Having a prostate or urinary tract infection
Having a medical procedure done that affects the urinary tract, such as insertion of a urinary catheter or scope into the penis
An uncircumcised penis
A difference in the typical anatomy of the urinary tract
Prostate enlargement, which increases the risk of bladder infections and epididymitis
Other health conditions that cause a weakened immune system, such as HIV
Prevention
To help protect against STIs that can cause epididymitis, practice safer sex.
If you have recurrent urinary tract infections or other risk factors for epididymitis, your health care provider might talk with you about other ways you can help prevent the condition.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Epilepsy
Home Remedies
Understanding your condition can help you take better control of it:
Take your medicine correctly. Don't adjust your dosage before talking to a member of your healthcare team. If you feel that your medicine should be changed, talk with your healthcare professional.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency staff know how to treat you correctly.
Exercise. Exercising may help keep you physically healthy and reduce depression. Make sure to drink enough water, and rest if you get tired during exercise.
In addition, make healthy life choices. Manage stress, limit alcohol and don't smoke cigarettes.
Symptoms=Seizure symptoms vary depending on the type of seizure. Because epilepsy is caused by certain activity in the brain, seizures can affect any brain process. Seizure symptoms may include:
Temporary confusion.
A staring spell.
Stiff muscles.
Uncontrollable jerking movements of the arms and legs.
Loss of consciousness.
Psychological symptoms such as fear, anxiety or deja vu.
Sometimes people with epilepsy may have changes in their behavior. They also may have symptoms of psychosis.
Most people with epilepsy tend to have the same type of seizure each time. Symptoms are usually similar from episode to episode.
Warning signs of seizures
Some people with focal seizures have warning signs in the moments before a seizure begins. These warning signs are known as aura.
Warning signs might include a feeling in the stomach. Or they might include emotions such as fear. Some people might feel deja vu. Auras also might be a taste or a smell. They might even be visual, such as a steady or flashing light, a color, or a shape. Some people may experience dizziness and loss of balance. And some people may see things that aren't there, known as hallucinations.
Seizures are classified as either focal or generalized, based on how and where the brain activity causing the seizure begins.
When seizures appear to result from activity in just one area of the brain, they're called focal seizures. These seizures fall into two categories:
Focal seizures without loss of consciousness. Once called simple partial seizures, these seizures don't cause a loss of awareness, also known as consciousness. They may alter emotions or change the way things look, smell, feel, taste or sound. Some people experience deja vu. This type of seizure also may result in involuntary jerking of a body part, such as an arm or a leg. And focal seizures may cause sensory symptoms such as tingling, dizziness and flashing lights.
Focal seizures with impaired awareness. Once called complex partial seizures, these seizures involve a change or loss of consciousness. This type of seizure may seem like being in a dream. During a focal seizure with impaired awareness, people may stare into space and not respond in typical ways to the environment. They also may perform repetitive movements, such as hand rubbing, chewing, swallowing or walking in circles.
Symptoms of focal seizures may be confused with other neurological conditions, such as migraine, narcolepsy or mental illness. A thorough exam and testing are needed to tell if symptoms are the result of epilepsy or another condition.
Focal seizures may come from any lobe of the brain. Some types of focal seizures include:
Temporal lobe seizures. Temporal lobe seizures begin in the areas of the brain called the temporal lobes. The temporal lobes process emotions and play a role in short-term memory. People who have these seizures often experience an aura. The aura may include sudden emotion such as fear or joy. It also may be a sudden taste or smell. Or an aura may be a feeling of deja vu, or a rising sensation in the stomach. During the seizure, people may lose awareness of their surroundings. They also may stare into space, smack their lips, swallow or chew repeatedly, or have movements of their fingers.
Frontal lobe seizures. Frontal lobe seizures begin in the front of the brain. This is the part of the brain that controls movement. Frontal lobe seizures cause people to move their heads and eyes to one side. They won't respond when spoken to and may scream or laugh. They might extend one arm and flex the other arm. They also might make repetitive movements such as rocking or bicycle pedaling.
Occipital lobe seizures. These seizures begin in the area of the brain called the occipital lobe. This lobe affects vision and how people see. People who have this type of seizure may have hallucinations. Or they may lose some or all of their vision during the seizure. These seizures also might cause eye blinking or make the eyes move.
Generalized seizures
Seizures that appear to involve all areas of the brain are called generalized seizures. Generalized seizures include:
Absence seizures. Absence seizures, previously known as petit mal seizures, typically occur in children. Symptoms include staring into space with or without subtle body movements. Movements may include eye blinking or lip smacking and only last 5 to 10 seconds. These seizures may occur in clusters, happening as often as 100 times a day, and cause a brief loss of awareness.
Tonic seizures. Tonic seizures cause stiff muscles and may affect consciousness. These seizures usually affect muscles in the back, arms and legs and may cause the person to fall to the ground.
Atonic seizures. Atonic seizures, also known as drop seizures, cause a loss of muscle control. Since this most often affects the legs, it often causes sudden falls to the ground.
Clonic seizures. Clonic seizures are associated with repeated or rhythmic jerking muscle movements. These seizures usually affect the neck, face and arms.
Myoclonic seizures. Myoclonic seizures usually appear as sudden brief jerks or twitches and usually affect the upper body, arms and legs.
Tonic-clonic seizures. Tonic-clonic seizures, previously known as grand mal seizures, are the most dramatic type of epileptic seizure. They can cause a sudden loss of consciousness and body stiffening, twitching and shaking. They sometimes cause loss of bladder control or biting of the tongue.
Risk Factors
Certain factors may increase your risk of epilepsy:
Age. The onset of epilepsy is most common in children and older adults, but the condition can occur at any age.
Family history. If you have a family history of epilepsy, you may be at an increased risk of seizures.
Head injuries. Head injuries are responsible for some cases of epilepsy. You can reduce your risk by wearing a seat belt while riding in a car. Also wear a helmet while bicycling, skiing, riding a motorcycle or doing any activities with a high risk of head injury.
Stroke and other vascular diseases. Stroke and other blood vessel diseases can cause brain damage. Brain damage may trigger seizures and epilepsy. You can take steps to reduce your risk of these diseases. Limit alcohol, don't smoke, eat a healthy diet and exercise regularly.
Dementia. Dementia can increase the risk of epilepsy in older adults.
Brain infections. Infections such as meningitis, which causes inflammation in the brain or spinal cord, can increase your risk.
Seizures in childhood. High fevers in childhood can sometimes be associated with seizures. Children who have seizures due to high fevers generally won't develop epilepsy. The risk of epilepsy increases if a child has a long fever-associated seizure, another nervous system condition or a family history of epilepsy.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Erectile dysfunction
Home Remedies
For many people, erectile dysfunction is caused or worsened by lifestyle choices. Here are some steps that might help:
If you smoke, quit. If you have trouble quitting, get help. Try nicotine replacement, such as over-the-counter gum or lozenges, or ask your doctor about a prescription medication that can help you quit.
Lose excess pounds. Being overweight can cause — or worsen — erectile dysfunction.
Include physical activity in your daily routine. Exercise can help with underlying conditions that play a part in erectile dysfunction in a number of ways, including reducing stress, helping you lose weight and increasing blood flow.
Get treatment for alcohol or drug problems. Drinking too much or taking certain illegal drugs can worsen erectile dysfunction directly or by causing long-term health problems.
Work through relationship issues. Consider couples counseling if you're having trouble improving communication with your partner or working through problems on your own.
Symptoms=Erectile dysfunction symptoms might include persistent:
Trouble getting an erection
Trouble keeping an erection
Reduced sexual desire
Risk Factors
As you get older, erections might take longer to develop and might not be as firm. You might need more direct touch to your penis to get and keep an erection.
Various risk factors can contribute to erectile dysfunction, including:
Medical conditions, particularly diabetes or heart conditions
Tobacco use, which restricts blood flow to veins and arteries, can — over time — cause chronic health conditions that lead to erectile dysfunction
Being overweight, especially if you're obese
Certain medical treatments, such as prostate surgery or radiation treatment for cancer
Injuries, particularly if they damage the nerves or arteries that control erections
Medications, including antidepressants, antihistamines and medications to treat high blood pressure, pain or prostate conditions
Psychological conditions, such as stress, anxiety or depression
Drug and alcohol use, especially if you're a long-term drug user or heavy drinker
Prevention
The best way to prevent erectile dysfunction is to make healthy lifestyle choices and to manage any existing health conditions. For example:
Work with your doctor to manage diabetes, heart disease or other chronic health conditions.
See your doctor for regular checkups and medical screening tests.
Stop smoking, limit or avoid alcohol, and don't use illegal drugs.
Exercise regularly.
Take steps to reduce stress.
Get help for anxiety, depression or other mental health concerns.
Erectile dysfunction care at Mayo Clinic
Our caring team of Mayo Clinic experts can help you with your health concerns. Visit Mayo Clinic Men's Health to get started.
Get the process started
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Esophageal spasms
Home Remedies
To help you cope with occasional esophageal spasms, try to:
Avoid your triggers. Make a list of foods and beverages that cause your esophageal spasms.
Choose food that is warm or cool. Let foods and drinks that are very hot or very cold sit for a bit before eating or drinking them.
Suck a peppermint lozenge. Peppermint oil is a smooth muscle relaxant and might help ease esophageal spasms. Place the peppermint lozenge under your tongue.
Symptoms=Esophagus
Enlarge image
Symptoms of esophageal spasms include:
Squeezing pain in your chest. The pain is often intense, and you might mistake it for heart pain, also known as angina.
Difficulty swallowing solids and liquids, sometimes related to swallowing specific substances. Red wine or extremely hot or cold liquids are more common culprits.
The feeling that an object is stuck in your throat.
The return of food and liquids back up your esophagus, also called regurgitation.
Risk Factors
There are no known risk factors for esophageal spasms.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Esophagitis
Home Remedies
Depending on the type of esophagitis you have, you may lessen symptoms or stop recurring problems by following these steps:
Do not eat foods that may increase reflux. Eating or drinking large amounts of certain foods may worsen your symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. These may include alcohol, caffeine, chocolate and mint-flavored foods.
Use good pill-taking habits. Always take a pill with plenty of water. Don't lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking a pill.
Lose weight. Talk to your health care provider about an appropriate diet and exercise routine to help you lose weight and maintain a healthy weight.
If you smoke, quit. Talk to your provider if you need help ending a smoking habit.
Try not to stoop or bend, especially soon after eating.
Do not lie down after eating. Wait at least three hours after eating to lie down or go to bed.
Raise the head of your bed. Place wooden blocks under your bed to elevate your head. Aim for an elevation of 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters). If it's not possible to elevate your bed, insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Raising your head by using only pillows isn't effective.
Symptoms=Common symptoms of esophagitis include:
Difficulty swallowing.
Painful swallowing.
Swallowed food becoming stuck in the esophagus, also known as food impaction.
Chest pain, particularly behind the breastbone, that occurs with eating.
Heartburn.
Acid regurgitation.
In infants and young children, particularly those too young to explain their discomfort or pain, symptoms of esophagitis may include:
Feeding difficulties, such as irritability, arching of the back and not wanting to eat.
Failure to thrive.
Chest or belly pain in older children.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for esophagitis vary depending on the different causes of the disorder.
Reflux esophagitis
Factors that increase the risk of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and therefore are factors in reflux esophagitis, include the following:
Eating immediately before going to bed.
Excessively large and fatty meals.
Smoking.
Extra weight, including from pregnancy.
Several foods may worsen symptoms of GERD or reflux esophagitis:
Caffeine.
Alcohol.
Fatty foods.
Chocolate.
Peppermint.
Eosinophilic esophagitis
Risk factors for eosinophilic esophagitis, or allergy-related esophagitis, may include:
A history of certain allergic reactions, including asthma, atopic dermatitis and allergic rhinitis, also known as hay fever.
A family history of eosinophilic esophagitis.
Drug-induced esophagitis
Factors that may increase the risk of drug-induced esophagitis are generally related to issues that prevent quick and complete passage of a pill into the stomach. These factors include:
Swallowing a pill with little or no water.
Taking drugs while lying down.
Taking drugs right before sleep, probably due in part to the production of less saliva and swallowing less during sleep.
Older age, possibly because of age-related changes to the muscles of the esophagus or a decreased production of saliva.
Large or oddly shaped pills.
Infectious esophagitis
Risk factors for infectious esophagitis often relate to medications, such as steroids or antibiotics. People with diabetes also are at increased risk of candida esophagitis in particular.
Other causes of infectious esophagitis may relate to poor immune system function. This may be due to an immune disorder, HIV/AIDS or certain cancers. Also, certain cancer treatments and drugs that block immune system reactions to transplanted organs (immunosuppressants) may increase the risk of infectious esophagitis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Essential tremor
Home Remedies
To reduce or relieve tremors:
Avoid caffeine. Caffeine and other stimulants can increase tremors.
Use alcohol sparingly, if at all. Some people notice that their tremors improve slightly after they drink alcohol, but drinking isn't a good solution. Tremors tend to worsen once the effects of alcohol wear off. Also, increasing amounts of alcohol eventually are needed to relieve tremors, which can lead to alcohol use disorder.
Learn to relax. Stress and anxiety tend to make tremors worse. Being relaxed may improve tremors. You can't rid your life of all stress. But you can change how you react to stressful situations using a range of relaxation techniques, such as massage or meditation.
Make lifestyle changes. Use the hand less affected by tremor more often. Find ways to avoid writing with the hand affected by tremor, such as using online banking and debit cards instead of writing checks.
Try voice-activated commands on your smartphone and speech-recognition software on your computer.
Symptoms=Essential tremor symptoms:
Begin gradually, and usually are more noticeable on one side of the body.
Worsen with movement.
Usually occur in the hands first, affecting one hand or both hands.
Can include a "yes-yes" or "no-no" motion of the head.
May be aggravated by emotional stress, fatigue, caffeine or temperature extremes.
Essential tremor vs. Parkinson's disease
Many people associate tremors with Parkinson's disease, but the two conditions differ in key ways:
Timing of tremors. Essential tremor of the hands usually occurs when using the hands. Tremors from Parkinson's disease are most noticeable when the hands are at the sides of the body or resting in the lap.
Associated conditions. Essential tremor doesn't cause other health problems, but Parkinson's disease is associated with stooped posture, slow movement and dragging the feet when walking. However, people with essential tremor sometimes develop other neurological signs and symptoms, such as an unsteady walk.
Parts of the body affected. Essential tremor mainly involves the hands, head and voice. Parkinson's disease tremors usually start in the hands, and can affect the legs, chin and other parts of the body.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
About half the people with essential tremor appear to have an altered gene. This form is referred to as familial tremor. It isn't clear what causes essential tremor in people who don't have familial tremor.
Risk factors
Autosomal dominant inheritance pattern
Enlarge image
Known risk factors for essential tremor include:
Altered gene. The inherited variety of essential tremor, known as familial tremor, is an autosomal dominant disorder. An altered gene from just one parent is needed to pass on the condition.
Anyone who has a parent with an altered gene for essential tremor has a 50% chance of developing the condition.
Age. Essential tremor is more common in people age 40 and older.
Complications
Essential tremor isn't life-threatening, but symptoms often worsen over time. If the tremors become severe, it might be difficult to:
Hold a cup or glass without spilling.
Eat without shaking.
Put on makeup or shave.
Talk, if the voice box or tongue is affected.
Write legibly.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Autosomal dominant inheritance pattern
Enlarge image
Known risk factors for essential tremor include:
Altered gene. The inherited variety of essential tremor, known as familial tremor, is an autosomal dominant disorder. An altered gene from just one parent is needed to pass on the condition.
Anyone who has a parent with an altered gene for essential tremor has a 50% chance of developing the condition.
Age. Essential tremor is more common in people age 40 and older.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Eyestrain
Home Remedies
Consider these tips to reduce or prevent eyestrain.
Adjust the lighting. When watching television, it may be easier on your eyes if you keep the room softly lit.
When reading printed materials or doing close work, try to position the light source behind you and direct the light onto your page or task. If you're reading at a desk, use a shaded light positioned in front of you. The shade will keep light from shining directly into your eyes.
Take breaks. When reading or doing close work, take occasional breaks and rest your eyes by looking away from the page, digital screen or task.
Limit screen time. This is especially important for children, who may not make the connection between extended viewing, eyestrain and the need to rest their eyes regularly.
Use artificial tears. Nonprescription artificial tears can help prevent and relieve dry eyes. Use them even when your eyes feel fine to keep them well lubricated and prevent a recurrence of symptoms.
Your eye specialist can suggest which eye drops might be best for you. Avoid eye drops with a redness remover, as these may worsen dry eye symptoms.
Eye drops that don't contain preservatives can be used as often as you need. If you use eye drops containing preservatives, you may develop a sensitivity to the preservative if you use the drops more than four times a day. If this occurs, switching to preservative-free eye drops can be helpful. However, don't use them more than four times a day.
Improve the air quality of your space. Some changes that may help prevent dry eyes include using a humidifier, adjusting the thermostat to reduce blowing air and avoiding smoke. If you smoke, consider quitting. Moving your chair to a different area may help reduce the amount of dry moving air on your eyes and face.
Choose the right eyewear for you. If you need glasses or contacts and work at a computer, consider investing in glasses or contact lenses designed specifically for computer work. Ask your optometrist about lens coatings and tints that might help too.
Tips for computer work
Computer use is a common cause of eyestrain. If you work at a desk and use a computer, these self-care steps can help take some of the strain off your eyes.
Blink often to refresh your eyes. Many people blink less than usual when working at a computer, which can contribute to dry eyes. Blinking produces tears that moisten and refresh your eyes. Try to make it a habit to blink more often when looking at a monitor.
Take eye breaks. Throughout the day, give your eyes a break by looking away from your monitor. Try the 20-20-20 rule: Every 20 minutes, look at something 20 feet away for at least 20 seconds.
Check the lighting and reduce glare. Bright lighting and too much glare can strain your eyes and make it difficult to see objects on your monitor. The worst problems are generally from sources above or behind you, including fluorescent lighting and sunlight. Consider turning off some or all of the overhead lights.
If you need light for writing or reading, use an adjustable desk lamp. Close blinds or shades, and avoid placing your monitor directly in front of a window or white wall. Place an anti-glare cover over the screen.
Adjust your monitor. Position your monitor directly in front of you about an arm's length away so that the top of the screen is at or just below eye level. It also helps to have a chair you can adjust.
Use a document holder. If you need to refer to print material while you work on your computer, place it on a document holder. Some holders are designed to be placed between the keyboard and the monitor; others are placed to the side. Find one that works for you. The goal is to reduce how much your eyes need to readjust and how often you turn your neck and head.
Adjust your screen settings. Enlarge the type for easier reading. And adjust the contrast and brightness to a level that's comfortable for you.
Symptoms=Eyestrain symptoms include:
Sore, tired, burning or itching eyes
Watery or dry eyes
Blurred or double vision
Headache
Sore neck, shoulders or back
Increased sensitivity to light, called photophobia
Difficulty concentrating
Feeling that you cannot keep your eyes open
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Factitious disorder
Home Remedies
Along with professional treatment, these tips may help people who have factitious disorder:
Stick to your treatment plan. Attend therapy appointments and take any medications as directed. If you feel an urge to harm yourself or cause yourself to become ill, talk honestly to your therapist or primary care doctor for better ways to cope with emotions.
Have a medical gatekeeper. Have one trusted primary provider to manage your medical care, rather than visiting numerous doctors, specialists and surgeons.
Remember the risks. Remind yourself that you could face permanent injury or even death each time you hurt yourself or have a risky test or surgery needlessly.
Don't run. Resist urges to find a new doctor or to flee to a new town where medical professionals aren't aware of your background. Your therapist can help you overcome these powerful urges.
Connect with someone. Many people with factitious disorder lack friendships and other relationships. Try to find someone you're able to confide in, share enjoyable times with and offer your own support to.
Symptoms=Factitious disorder symptoms involve mimicking or producing illness or injury or exaggerating symptoms or impairment to deceive others. People with the disorder go to great lengths to hide their deception, so it may be difficult to realize that their symptoms are actually part of a serious mental health disorder. They continue with the deception, even without receiving any visible benefit or reward or when faced with objective evidence that doesn't support their claims.
Factitious disorder signs and symptoms may include:
Clever and convincing medical or psychological problems
Extensive knowledge of medical terms and diseases
Vague or inconsistent symptoms
Conditions that get worse for no apparent reason
Conditions that don't respond as expected to standard therapies
Seeking treatment from many different doctors or hospitals, which may include using a fake name
Reluctance to allow doctors to talk to family or friends or to other health care professionals
Frequent stays in the hospital
Eagerness to have frequent testing or risky operations
Many surgical scars or evidence of numerous procedures
Having few visitors when hospitalized
Arguing with doctors and staff
Factious disorder imposed on another
Factitious disorder imposed on another (previously called Munchausen syndrome by proxy) is when someone falsely claims that another person has physical or psychological signs or symptoms of illness, or causes injury or disease in another person with the intention of deceiving others.
People with this disorder present another person as sick, injured or having problems functioning, claiming that medical attention is needed. Usually this involves a parent harming a child. This form of abuse can put a child in serious danger of injury or unnecessary medical care.
How those with factitious disorder fake illness
Because people with factitious disorder become experts at faking symptoms and diseases or inflicting real injuries upon themselves, it may be hard for health care professionals and loved ones to know if illnesses are real or not.
People with factitious disorder make up symptoms or cause illnesses in several ways, such as:
Exaggerating existing symptoms. Even when an actual medical or psychological condition exists, they may exaggerate symptoms to appear sicker or more impaired than is true.
Making up histories. They may give loved ones, health care professionals or support groups a false medical history, such as claiming to have had cancer or AIDS. Or they may falsify medical records to indicate an illness.
Faking symptoms. They may fake symptoms, such as stomach pain, seizures or passing out.
Causing self-harm. They may make themselves sick, for example, by injecting themselves with bacteria, milk, gasoline or feces. They may injure, cut or burn themselves. They may take medications, such as blood thinners or drugs for diabetes, to mimic diseases. They may also interfere with wound healing, such as reopening or infecting cuts.
Tampering. They may manipulate medical instruments to skew results, such as heating up thermometers. Or they may tamper with lab tests, such as contaminating their urine samples with blood or other substances.
Risk Factors
Several factors may increase the risk of developing factitious disorder, including:
Childhood trauma, such as emotional, physical or sexual abuse
A serious illness during childhood
Loss of a loved one through death, illness or abandonment
Past experiences during a time of sickness and the attention it brought
A poor sense of identity or self-esteem
Personality disorders
Depression
Desire to be associated with doctors or medical centers
Work in the health care field
Factitious disorder is considered rare, but it's not known how many people have the disorder. Some people use fake names to avoid detection, some visit many different hospitals and doctors, and some are never identified — all of which make it difficult to get a reliable estimate.
Prevention
Because the cause of factitious disorder is unknown, there's currently no known way to prevent it. Early recognition and treatment of factitious disorder may help avoid unnecessary and potentially dangerous tests and treatment.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Factor V Leiden
Home Remedies
Some precautions to help reduce your risk of blood clots include:
Keep your legs moving. When your legs remain still for hours, your calf muscles don't contract, which normally helps blood circulate. If you're on a long plane trip, raise your toes up and down and rotate your ankles every hour or so. Drink extra water to prevent dehydration, and avoid alcohol. On a car trip, take periodic breaks and walk around.
Consider compression stockings. These types of socks, which usually come up to the knees, help improve blood circulation in your legs. Ask your doctor if they might be a good option for your situation.
Be cautious with estrogen. Oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement therapy can increase the risk of blood clots on their own, so be sure to discuss the risks and the benefits of estrogen-containing medications with your doctor if you have factor V Leiden.
Prevent excessive bleeding
If your factor V Leiden requires you to take anticoagulant medication, here are some steps that might help you prevent injury and avoid excessive bleeding:
Avoid playing contact sports or engaging in other activities that could result in physical injury. Regular noncontact exercise, such as walking or swimming, is still recommended for good health.
Use a soft toothbrush and waxed floss.
Avoid shaving cuts by using an electric razor.
Be cautious with household tasks involving knives, scissors and other sharp tools.
Symptoms=The factor V Leiden mutation does not itself cause any symptoms. Since factor V Leiden is a risk for developing blood clots in the leg or lungs, the first indication that you have the disorder may be the development of an abnormal blood clot.
Some clots do no damage and disappear on their own. Others can be life-threatening. Symptoms of a blood clot depend on what part of your body is affected.
A clot in a deep vein
This is known as deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which most commonly occurs in the legs. A DVT may not cause any symptoms. If signs and symptoms do occur, they can include:
Pain
Swelling
Redness
Warmth
A clot that travels to your lungs
Known as a pulmonary embolism, this occurs when a portion of a DVT breaks free and travels through the right side of your heart to your lung, where it blocks blood flow. This can be a life-threatening situation. Signs and symptoms may include:
Sudden shortness of breath
Chest pain when breathing in
A cough that produces bloody or blood-streaked sputum
Rapid heartbeat
Risk Factors
A family history of factor V Leiden increases your risk of inheriting the disorder. The disorder is most common in people who are white and of European descent.
People who have inherited factor V Leiden from only one parent have a 5 percent chance of developing an abnormal blood clot by age 65. Factors that increase this risk include:
Two faulty genes. Inheriting the genetic mutation from both parents instead of just one can significantly increase your risk of abnormal blood clots.
Immobility. Extended periods of immobility, such as sitting during a long airplane flight, can increase the risk of leg clots.
Estrogens. Oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy and pregnancy can make you more likely to develop blood clots.
Surgeries or injuries. Surgeries or injuries such as broken bones can increase your risk of abnormal blood clots.
Non-O blood type. Abnormal blood clots are more common in people who have blood types of A, B or AB compared with those with blood type O.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Farsightedness
Home Remedies
You can't prevent farsightedness, but you can help protect your eyes and your vision by following these tips:
Have your eyes checked. Do this regularly even if you see well.
Control chronic health conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes and high blood pressure, can affect your vision if not treated.
Protect your eyes from the sun. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet (UV) radiation.
Prevent eye injuries. Wear protective eyewear when doing certain things, such as playing sports, mowing the lawn, painting or using other products with toxic fumes.
Eat healthy foods. Try to eat plenty of leafy greens, other vegetables and fruits. And studies show that your eyes benefit if you also include in your diet fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as tuna and salmon.
Don't smoke. Just as smoking isn't good for the rest of your body, smoking can adversely affect your eye health as well.
Use the right corrective lenses. The right lenses optimize your vision. Having regular exams will ensure that your prescription is correct.
Use good lighting. Turn up or add light to see better.
Reduce eyestrain. Look away from your computer or near-task work, including reading, every 20 minutes — for 20 seconds — at something 20 feet away.
See your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms: Sudden loss of vision in one eye with or without pain; sudden hazy or blurred vision; double vision; or visual flashes of light, black spots or halos around lights. This may represent a serious medical or eye condition.
Symptoms=Farsightedness may mean:
Nearby objects may appear blurry
You need to squint to see clearly
You have eyestrain, including burning eyes, and aching in or around the eyes
You have general eye discomfort or a headache after doing close tasks, such as reading, writing, computer work or drawing, for a time
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Fatigue
Home Remedies
Get enough sleep and maintain a regular sleep schedule.Drinking water to stay hydrated.Eating a balanced diet with whole foods.Light physical activity to boost energy.
Symptoms=Fatigue is a persistent tiredness that doesnt improve with rest. Symptoms include chronic tiredness, reduced motivation, difficulty concentrating, headaches, sore muscles, mood swings, and appetite changes. It can result from lifestyle factors, stress, or medical conditions like anemia and thyroid disorders.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Fecal incontinence
Home Remedies
Dietary changes
You may be able to gain better control of your bowel movements by:
Keeping track of what you eat. What you eat and drink affects the consistency of your stools. Make a list of what you eat for a few days. You may discover a connection between certain foods and your bouts of incontinence. Once you've identified problem foods, stop eating them and see if your incontinence improves.
Foods can cause diarrhea or gas and worsen fecal incontinence. Common culprits include spicy foods, fatty and greasy foods, and dairy products. Caffeine-containing beverages and alcohol also can act as laxatives. Other foods that have a laxative effect include sugar-free gum and diet soda, which contain artificial sweeteners.
Getting adequate fiber. If constipation is causing fecal incontinence, your doctor may recommend eating fiber-rich foods. Fiber helps make stool soft and easier to control. If diarrhea is contributing to the problem, high-fiber foods also can add bulk to your stools and make them less watery.
Fiber is predominately present in fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain breads and cereals. Aim for 25 grams (0.9 ounces) of fiber a day or more. But don't add it to your diet all at once. Too much fiber suddenly can cause uncomfortable bloating and gas.
Drink more water. To keep stools soft and formed, drink at least eight glasses of liquid, preferably water, a day.
Skin care
You can help avoid further discomfort from fecal incontinence by keeping the skin around your anus as clean and dry as possible. To relieve anal discomfort and eliminate any possible odor associated with fecal incontinence:
Wash with water. Gently wash the area with water after each bowel movement. Showering or soaking in a bath also may help.
Soap can dry and irritate the skin. So can rubbing with dry toilet paper. Try using premoistened, alcohol-free, perfume-free towelettes or wipes.
Dry thoroughly. Allow the area to air-dry, if possible. If you're short on time, you can gently pat the area dry with toilet paper or a clean washcloth.
Apply a cream or powder. Moisture-barrier creams help keep irritated skin from having direct contact with feces. Be sure the area is clean and dry before you apply any cream. Nonmedicated talcum powder or cornstarch also may help relieve anal discomfort.
Wear cotton underwear and loose clothing. Tight clothing can restrict airflow, making skin problems worse. Change soiled underwear quickly.
When medical treatments can't completely eliminate incontinence, products such as absorbent pads and disposable underwear can help you manage the problem. If you use pads or adult diapers, be sure they have an absorbent wicking layer on top. This helps keep moisture away from your skin.
Symptoms=Fecal incontinence may occur during an occasional bout of diarrhea. But for some people, fecal incontinence happens a lot. People with this condition may not be able to stop the urge to defecate. It may come on so suddenly that you can't make it to the toilet in time. This is called urge incontinence.
Another type of fecal incontinence occurs in people who are not aware of the need to pass stool. This is called passive incontinence.
Fecal incontinence may happen with other bowel problems, such as:
Diarrhea.
Constipation.
Gas and bloating.
Risk Factors
A number of factors may increase your risk of developing fecal incontinence, including:
Age. Although fecal incontinence can occur at any age, it's more common in adults over 65.
Being female. Fecal incontinence can be a complication of childbirth. Recent research also has found that women who take menopausal hormone replacement therapy have a modest increased risk of fecal incontinence.
Nerve damage. People who have long-standing diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or back trauma from injury or surgery may be at risk of fecal incontinence. These conditions can damage nerves that help control defecation.
Dementia. Fecal incontinence is often present in late-stage Alzheimer's disease and dementia.
Physical disability. Being physically disabled may make it difficult to reach a toilet in time. An injury that caused a physical disability also may cause rectal nerve damage, leading to fecal incontinence.
Prevention
Depending on the cause, it may be possible to improve or prevent fecal incontinence. These actions may help:
Reduce constipation. Increase your exercise, eat more high-fiber foods and drink plenty of fluids.
Control diarrhea. Treating or eliminating the cause of the diarrhea, such as an intestinal infection, may help you avoid fecal incontinence.
Do not strain. Straining during bowel movements can eventually weaken anal sphincter muscles or damage nerves.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Female sexual dysfunction
Home Remedies
To boost your sexual health, find ways to be comfortable with your sexuality, improve your self-esteem and accept your body. Try practicing these healthy lifestyle habits:
Avoid excessive alcohol. Drinking too much blunts sexual responsiveness.
Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking restricts blood flow throughout your body. Less blood reaches your sexual organs, which means you could experience decreased sexual arousal and orgasmic response.
Be physically active. Regular aerobic exercise increases your stamina, improves your body image and elevates your mood. This can help you feel more romantic, more often.
Make time for leisure and relaxation. Learn ways to decrease stress, and allow yourself to relax amid the stresses of your daily life. Being relaxed can enhance your ability to focus on your sexual experiences and may help you attain more satisfying arousal and orgasm.
Symptoms=Symptoms vary depending on what type of sexual dysfunction you're experiencing:
Low sexual desire. This most common of female sexual dysfunctions involves a lack of sexual interest and willingness to be sexual.
Sexual arousal disorder. Your desire for sex might be intact, but you have difficulty with arousal or are unable to become aroused or maintain arousal during sexual activity.
Orgasmic disorder. You have persistent or recurrent difficulty in achieving orgasm after sufficient sexual arousal and ongoing stimulation.
Sexual pain disorder. You have pain associated with sexual stimulation or vaginal contact.
Risk Factors
Some factors may increase your risk of sexual dysfunction:
Depression or anxiety
Heart and blood vessel disease
Neurological conditions, such as spinal cord injury or multiple sclerosis
Gynecological conditions, such as vulvovaginal atrophy, infections or lichen sclerosus
Certain medications, such as antidepressants or high blood pressure medications
Emotional or psychological stress, especially with regard to your relationship with your partner
A history of sexual abuse



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Fever
Home Remedies
Rest and stay hydrated.Apply cool compresses to the forehead.Ginger or mint tea to help induce sweating.Light, breathable clothing.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Fibrocystic breasts
Home Remedies
You might find relief from symptoms of fibrocystic breasts through one of these home remedies:
Wear a firm support bra, fitted by a professional, if possible.
Wear a sports bra during exercise and while sleeping, especially when your breasts are extra sensitive.
Limit or avoid caffeine, a dietary change many people report as helpful, although medical studies of caffeine's effect on breast pain and other premenstrual symptoms have been inconclusive.
Eat less fat, which may decrease breast pain or discomfort associated with fibrocystic breasts.
Reduce or stop taking hormone therapy if you're postmenopausal — but be sure to talk to your doctor before making any change in your prescription medications.
Use a heating pad or warm water bottle to relieve your discomfort.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of fibrocystic breasts may include:
Breast lumps or areas of thickening that tend to blend into the surrounding breast tissue
Generalized breast pain or tenderness or discomfort that involves the upper outer part of the breast
Breast nodules or lumpy tissue change in size with the menstrual cycle
Green or dark brown nonbloody nipple discharge that tends to leak without pressure or squeezing
Breast changes that are similar in both breasts
Monthly increase in breast pain or lumpiness from midcycle (ovulation) to just before your period and then gets better once your period starts
Fibrocystic breast changes occur most often between 30 and 50 years of age. These changes happen rarely after menopause unless you're taking hormone replacement medicine such as estrogen or progesterone.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Flatfeet
Home Remedies
If flatfeet causes you minor pain, you might want to try:
Rest. Avoid activities that aggravate the condition. Participate in low-impact activities — such as walking, biking or swimming — rather than jumping and running activities.
Arch supports. Arch supports that are available without a prescription might increase your comfort.
Medications. Pain relievers that are available without a prescription, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) might help.
Weight loss. Losing weight can reduce stress on the feet.
Symptoms=Most people have no symptoms associated with flatfeet. But some people with flatfeet experience foot pain, particularly in the heel or arch area. Pain may worsen with activity. Swelling may occur along the inside of the ankle.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of flatfeet include:
Obesity
Injury to the foot or ankle
Rheumatoid arthritis
Aging
Diabetes



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Flu
Home Remedies
Rest and drink plenty of fluids.Warm broths for nutrients and hydration.Herbal teas with honey and ginger.Steam inhalation for sinus congestion relief.
Symptoms=The flu, or influenza, is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. Common symptoms include fever, chills, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, muscle or body aches, headaches, and fatigue. Some people may also experience vomiting and diarrhea, although this is more common in children. The flu can lead to serious complications, especially in high-risk groups such as young children, the elderly, and individuals with chronic health conditions.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)
Home Remedies
The following lifestyle changes can help keep the kidneys healthier:
Don't use medicines that can damage your kidneys. These include some pain relievers such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDS you can get without a prescription include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Eat a healthy diet. To protect your kidneys and lower your blood pressure, limit salt and protein.
Don't smoke. If you need help quitting, talk with a member of your healthcare team.
Stay at a healthy weight. Lose weight if you're overweight.
Be active on most days. Being active is good for your health. Ask your healthcare team what types of exercise and how much exercise you can do.
Symptoms=Symptoms of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) might include:
Swelling, called edema, in the legs and ankles, around the eyes and in other body parts.
Weight gain from fluid buildup.
Foamy urine from protein buildup, called proteinuria.
Risk Factors
Factors that can raise the risk of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) include:
Medical conditions that can damage the kidneys. Certain diseases and conditions increase the risk of getting FSGS. These include diabetes, lupus, obesity and other kidney diseases.
Certain infections. Infections that increase the risk of FSGS include HIV and hepatitis C.
Gene changes. Certain genes passed through families can raise the risk of FSGS.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Food allergy
Home Remedies
One of the keys to preventing an allergic reaction is to completely avoid the food that causes your symptoms.
Don't assume. Always read food labels to make sure they don't contain an ingredient you're allergic to. Even if you think you know what's in a food, check the label. Ingredients sometimes change.
Food labels are required to clearly list whether the food products contain any common food allergens. Read food labels carefully to avoid the most common sources of food allergens: milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy and wheat.
When in doubt, say no thanks. At restaurants and social gatherings, you're always taking a risk that you might eat a food you're allergic to. Many people don't understand the seriousness of an allergic food reaction and may not realize that a tiny amount of a food can cause a severe reaction in some people.
If you have any suspicion at all that a food may contain something you're allergic to, don't eat it.
Involve caregivers. If your child has a food allergy, enlist the help of relatives, babysitters, teachers and other caregivers. Make sure that they understand how important it is for your child to avoid the allergy-causing food and that they know what to do in an emergency.
It's also important to let caregivers know what steps they can take to prevent a reaction in the first place, such as careful hand-washing and cleaning any surfaces that might have come in contact with the allergy-causing food.
Symptoms=For some people, an allergic reaction to a particular food may be uncomfortable but not severe. For other people, a food allergy reaction can be frightening and even life-threatening. Food allergy symptoms usually develop within a few minutes to two hours after eating the offending food. Rarely, symptoms may be delayed for several hours.
The most common food allergy symptoms include:
Tingling or itching in the mouth.
Hives, itching or eczema.
Swelling of the lips, face, tongue, and throat or other parts of the body.
Belly pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting.
Wheezing, nasal congestion or trouble breathing.
Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting.
Anaphylaxis
In some people, a food allergy can trigger a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. This can cause life-threatening symptoms, including:
Constriction and tightening of the airways.
A swollen throat or the sensation of a lump in your throat that makes it hard to breathe.
Shock with a severe drop in blood pressure.
Rapid pulse.
Dizziness, lightheadedness or loss of consciousness.
Emergency treatment is critical for anaphylaxis. Untreated, anaphylaxis can be fatal.
Risk Factors
Food allergy risk factors include:
Family history. You're at increased risk of food allergies if asthma, eczema, hives or allergies such as hay fever are common in your family.
Other allergies. If you're already allergic to one food, you may be at increased risk of becoming allergic to another. Similarly, if you have other types of allergic reactions, such as hay fever or eczema, your risk of having a food allergy is greater.
Age. Food allergies are more common in children, especially toddlers and infants. As children grow older, their digestive systems mature and their bodies are less likely to react to food components that trigger allergies.
Fortunately, children typically outgrow allergies to milk, soy, wheat and eggs. Severe allergies and allergies to nuts and shellfish are more likely to be lifelong.
Asthma. Asthma and food allergy commonly occur together. When they do, both food allergy and asthma symptoms are more likely to be severe.
Factors that may increase your risk of developing an anaphylactic reaction include:
Having a history of asthma.
Being a teenager or younger.
Delaying use of epinephrine to treat your food allergy symptoms.
Not having hives or other skin symptoms.
Prevention
Early exposure
Early introduction of peanut products has been associated with a lower risk of peanut allergy. In an important study, high-risk infants — such as those with atopic dermatitis or egg allergy or both — were selected to either ingest or avoid peanut products from 4 to 6 months of age until 5 years of age.
Researchers found that high-risk children who regularly consumed peanut protein, such as peanut butter or peanut-flavored snacks, were around 80% less likely to develop a peanut allergy.
Before introducing allergenic foods, talk with your child's healthcare team about the best time to offer them.
Taking precautions
Once a food allergy has already developed, the best way to prevent an allergic reaction is to know and avoid foods that cause signs and symptoms. For some people, this is a mere inconvenience, but others find it very difficult. Also, some foods — when used as ingredients in certain dishes — may be well hidden. This is especially true in restaurants and in other social settings.
If you know you have a food allergy, follow these steps:
Know what you're eating and drinking. Be sure to read food labels carefully.
If you have already had a severe reaction, wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace that lets others know that you have a food allergy in case you have a reaction and you're unable to communicate.
Talk with your healthcare team about prescribing emergency epinephrine. You may need to carry an epinephrine autoinjector (Adrenaclick, EpiPen) if you're at risk of a severe allergic reaction.
Be careful at restaurants. Be certain your server or chef is aware that you absolutely can't eat the food you're allergic to, and you need to be completely certain that the meal you order doesn't contain it. Also, make sure food isn't prepared on surfaces or in pans that contained any of the food you're allergic to.
Don't be reluctant to make your needs known. Restaurant staff members are usually more than happy to help when they clearly understand your request.
Plan meals and snacks before leaving home. If necessary, take a cooler packed with allergen-free foods when you travel or go to an event. If you or your child can't have the cake or dessert at a party, bring an approved special treat so no one feels left out of the celebration.
If your child has a food allergy, take these precautions to ensure your child's safety:
Notify key people that your child has a food allergy. Talk with childcare providers, school personnel, parents of your child's friends and other adults who regularly interact with your child. Emphasize that an allergic reaction can be life-threatening and requires immediate action. Make sure that your child also knows to ask for help right away if your child reacts to food.
Explain food allergy symptoms. Teach the adults who spend time with your child how to recognize signs and symptoms of an allergic reaction.
Write an action plan. Your plan should describe how to care for your child when your child has an allergic reaction to food. Provide a copy of the plan to your child's school nurse and others who care for and supervise your child.
Have your child wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. This alert lists your child's allergy symptoms and explains how others can provide first aid in an emergency.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Food poisoning
Home Remedies
For most people, symptoms improve without treatment within 48 hours. To help keep yourself more comfortable and prevent dehydration while you recover, try the following:
Let your stomach settle. Eat after your stomach is settled and you are hungry again.
Replace fluids. Replace fluids with water, sports drinks, juice with added water or broths. Children or people at risk for serious illness should drink rehydration fluids (Pedialyte, Enfalyte, others). Talk to your doctor before giving rehydration fluids to infants.
Ease back into eating. Gradually begin to eat bland, low-fat, easy-to-digest foods, such as soda crackers, toast, gelatin, bananas and rice. Stop eating if you feel sick to your stomach again.
Avoid certain foods and substances until you're feeling better. These include dairy products, caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, and fatty or highly seasoned foods.
Rest. Rest to recover from illness and dehydration.
Symptoms=Symptoms vary depending on what is causing the illness. They may begin within a few hours or a few weeks depending on the cause.
Common symptoms are:
Upset stomach.
Vomiting.
Diarrhea.
Diarrhea with bloody stools.
Stomach pain and cramps.
Fever.
Headache.
Less often food poisoning affects the nervous system and can cause severe disease. Symptoms may include:
Blurred or double vision.
Headache.
Loss of movement in limbs.
Problems with swallowing.
Tingling or numbness of skin.
Weakness.
Changes in sound of the voice.
Risk Factors
Anyone can get food poisoning. Some people are more likely to get sick or have more-serious disease or complications. These people include:
Infants and children.
Pregnant people.
Older adults.
People with weakened immune systems due to another disease or treatments.
Prevention
To prevent food poisoning at home:
Handwashing. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Do this after using the toilet, before eating, and before and after handling food.
Wash fruits and vegetables. Rinse fruits and vegetables under running water before eating, peeling or preparing.
Wash kitchen utensils thoroughly. Wash cutting boards, knives and other utensils with soapy water after contact with raw meats or unwashed fruits and vegetables.
Don't eat raw or undercooked meat or fish. Use a meat thermometer to make sure meat is cooked enough. Cook whole meats and fish to at least 145 F (63 C) and let rest for at least three minutes. Cook ground meat to at least 160 F (71 C). Cook whole and ground poultry to at least 165 F (74 C).
Refrigerate or freeze leftovers. Put leftovers in covered containers in the refrigerator right after your meal. Leftovers can be kept for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator. If you don't think you'll eat them within four days, freeze them right away.
Cook leftovers safely. You can safely thaw frozen food three ways. You can microwave it. You can move it to the refrigerator to thaw overnight. Or you can put the frozen food in a leakproof container and put it in cold water on the counter. Reheat leftovers until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
Throw it out when in doubt. If you aren't sure if a food has been prepared, served or stored safely, discard it. Even if it looks and smells fine, it may not be safe to eat.
Throw out moldy food. Throw out any baked foods with mold. Throw out moldy soft fruits and vegetables, such as tomatoes, berries or peaches. And throw away any nuts or nut products with mold. You can trim away mold from firm foods with low moisture, such as carrots, bell peppers and hard cheeses. Cut away at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) around the moldy part of the food.
Clean your refrigerator. Clean the inside of the refrigerator every few months. Make a cleaning solution of 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of baking soda and 1 quart (0.9 liters) of water. Clean visible mold in the refrigerator or on the door seals. Use a solution of 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of bleach in 1 quart (0.9 liters) of water.
Safety for at-risk people
Food poisoning is especially serious during pregnancies and for young children, older adults and people with weakened immune systems. These illnesses may be life-threatening. These individuals should avoid the following foods:
Raw or undercooked meat, poultry, fish, and shellfish.
Raw or undercooked eggs or foods that may contain them, such as cookie dough and homemade ice cream.
Raw sprouts, such as alfalfa, bean, clover and radish sprouts.
Unpasteurized juices and ciders.
Unpasteurized milk and milk products.
Soft cheeses, such as feta, brie and Camembert; blue-veined cheese; and unpasteurized cheese.
Refrigerated pates and meat spreads.
Uncooked hot dogs, luncheon meats and deli meats.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Foot drop
Home Remedies
Because foot drop can increase your risk of tripping and falling, consider taking these precautions around your house:
Keep all floors clear of clutter.
Avoid the use of throw rugs.
Move electrical cords away from walkways.
Make sure rooms and stairways are well-lit.
Place fluorescent tape on the top and bottom steps of stairways.
Symptoms=Foot drop makes it difficult to lift the front part of the foot, so it might drag on the floor when you walk. To help the foot clear the floor, a person with foot drop may raise the thigh more than usual when walking, as though climbing stairs. This unusual kind of walking, called steppage gait, might cause the foot to slap down onto the floor with each step. In some cases, the skin on the top of the foot and toes feels numb.
Depending on the cause, foot drop can affect one or both feet.
Risk Factors
The peroneal nerve controls the muscles that lift the foot. This nerve runs near the surface of the skin on the side of the knee closest to the hand. Activities that compress this nerve can increase the risk of foot drop. Examples include:
Leg crossing. People who habitually cross their legs can compress the peroneal nerve on their uppermost leg.
Prolonged kneeling. Occupations that involve prolonged squatting or kneeling — such as picking strawberries or laying floor tile — can result in foot drop.
Wearing a leg cast. Plaster casts that enclose the ankle and end just below the knee can exert pressure on the peroneal nerve.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Frontal lobe seizures
Home Remedies
You may find that some things trigger seizures. Seizures can be triggered by alcohol intake, smoking and, especially, lack of sleep. There also is evidence that severe stress can provoke seizures, and that seizures themselves can cause stress. Avoiding these triggers where possible might help improve seizure control.
Symptoms=Frontal lobe seizures often last less than 30 seconds. Sometimes recovery is immediate.
Symptoms of frontal lobe seizures might include:
Head and eye movement to one side.
Not responding to others or having trouble speaking.
Explosive screams, including profanities or laughter.
Body posturing. A common posture is extending one arm while the other flexes, as if the person is posing like a fencer.
Repetitive movements. These may include rocking, bicycle pedaling or pelvic thrusting.
Risk Factors
Risk factors of frontal lobe seizures include:
Family history of seizures or brain disorders.
Head trauma.
Brain infection.
Brain tumors.
Blood vessels or brain tissues that form in an irregular way.
Stroke.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Frontotemporal dementia
Home Remedies
As frontotemporal dementia symptoms get worse, you'll need the help of caregivers. Caregivers can help you with daily activities, help maintain your safety, provide transportation and help with finances. Your healthcare professional can tell you when you may need to stop driving or let someone you trust take over your finances.
It's also important to get regular cardiovascular exercise. It may help improve your mood and thinking skills.
At home, it may be helpful to make adjustments so that daily living tasks are easier and you reduce the chance of injuries. For example, remove rugs to reduce falls. Or raise toilets to make it easier to use the bathroom.
Caregivers may be able to address behavioral symptoms by changing the way they interact with people with dementia. Ask your loved one's healthcare professional about resources that provide training in caring for someone with dementia.
Keeping a log of behavioral symptoms may help you pinpoint things in the environment that trigger symptoms. Taking these steps also may help:
Skip events or activities that trigger behavior that's not desired.
Remove negative environmental cues, such as car keys.
Maintain a calm environment.
Provide structured routines.
Simplify daily tasks.
Distract and redirect attention from harmful or inappropriate behaviors.
Symptoms=Symptoms of frontotemporal dementia differ from one person to the next. Symptoms get worse over time, usually over years.
People with frontotemporal dementia tend to have clusters of symptom types that occur together. They also may have more than one cluster of symptom types.
Behavioral changes
The most common symptoms of frontotemporal dementia involve extreme changes in behavior and personality. These include:
Increasingly inappropriate social behavior.
Loss of empathy and other interpersonal skills. For example, not being sensitive to another person's feelings.
Lack of judgment.
Loss of inhibition.
Lack of interest, also known as apathy. Apathy can be mistaken for depression.
Compulsive behaviors such as tapping, clapping, or smacking lips over and over.
A decline in personal hygiene.
Changes in eating habits. People with FTD typically overeat or prefer to eat sweets and carbohydrates.
Eating objects.
Compulsively wanting to put things in the mouth.
Speech and language symptoms
Some subtypes of frontotemporal dementia lead to changes in language ability or loss of speech. Subtypes include primary progressive aphasia, semantic dementia and progressive agrammatic aphasia, also known as progressive nonfluent aphasia.
These conditions can cause:
Increasing trouble using and understanding written and spoken language. People with FTD may not be able to find the right word to use in speech.
Trouble naming things. People with FTD may replace a specific word with a more general word, such as using "it" for pen.
No longer knowing word meanings.
Having hesitant speech that may sound telegraphic by using simple, two-word sentences.
Making mistakes in sentence building.
Movement conditions
Rare subtypes of frontotemporal dementia cause movements similar to those seen in Parkinson's disease or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS).
Movement symptoms may include:
Tremor.
Rigidity.
Muscle spasms or twitches.
Poor coordination.
Trouble swallowing.
Muscle weakness.
Inappropriate laughing or crying.
Falls or trouble walking.
Causes
In frontotemporal dementia, the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain shrink and certain substances build up in the brain. What causes these changes is usually not known.
Some genetic changes have been linked to frontotemporal dementia. But more than half of the people with FTD have no family history of dementia.
Researchers have confirmed that some frontotemporal dementia gene changes also are seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). More research is being done to understand the connection between the conditions.
Risk factors
Your risk of getting frontotemporal dementia is higher if you have a family history of dementia. There are no other known risk factors.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Your risk of getting frontotemporal dementia is higher if you have a family history of dementia. There are no other known risk factors.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Frostbite
Home Remedies
After rewarming, your skin may stop tingling and return to its usual color within a few hours. Deep tissue injury may heal slowly and be very sensitive to the touch for weeks. Take all medicines as prescribed by your healthcare team. For mild frostbite, a nonprescription pain reliever can help ease symptoms.
Symptoms=Symptoms of frostbite include:
Numbness.
Tingling.
Patches of skin in shades of red, white, blue, gray, purple or brown. The color of affected skin depends on how serious the frostbite is and the usual skin color.
Cold, hard, waxy-looking skin.
Clumsiness due to joint stiffness.
Pain.
Blistering after rewarming.
Frostbite is most common on the fingers, toes, ears, cheeks, penis, chin and tip of the nose. Because of numbness, you may not notice you have frostbite until someone points it out. Changes in the color of the affected area might be difficult to see on brown and Black skin.
Frostbite occurs in several stages:
Frostnip. Frostnip is the early stage of frostbite. Symptoms are pain, tingling and numbness. Frostnip doesn't cause permanent damage to the skin.
Mild to moderate frostbite. Frostbite causes slight changes in skin color. The skin may begin to feel warm. This is a sign of serious skin involvement. If you treat frostbite with rewarming at this stage, the surface of the skin may look patchy. The affected area may sting, burn and swell. A fluid-filled blister may form 12 to 36 hours after rewarming. This stage also is called superficial frostbite.
Deep frostbite. As frostbite progresses, it affects all layers of the skin and the tissues below. The affected skin turns white or blue-gray. Large blood blisters may appear 24 to 48 hours after rewarming. Weeks after the injury, tissue may turn black and hard as it dies.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for frostbite include:
Being in freezing conditions without protective clothing.
Having certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, exhaustion, poor blood flow or congestive heart failure.
Regularly smoking tobacco.
Having impaired judgment while in very cold conditions.
Having had frostbite or another cold injury in the past.
Being an infant or older adult in cold conditions. People in these age groups have a harder time producing and retaining body heat.
Being in cold conditions at high altitude.
Prevention
Frostbite can be prevented. Here are tips to help you stay safe and warm.
Limit time outdoors when it's freezing cold and wet or windy. Pay attention to weather forecasts and wind chill readings. The risk of frostbite increases the longer you're in freezing conditions. And frostbite can happen in an instant if bare skin touches something cold, such as freezing metal.
Dress in loose layers. Air trapped between the layers helps insulate you from the cold. Choose undergarments that wick moisture away from the skin. Next put on something made of fleece or wool. For the outer layer, wear something windproof and waterproof. Change out of wet gloves, hats and socks as soon as possible.
Wear a hat or headband made for cold weather. Make sure it covers your ears.
Wear mittens. Mittens provide better protection than do gloves. Under a pair of heavy mittens, also wear glove liners, which wick moisture away from the skin.
Wear socks and sock liners. Make sure they fit well, wick moisture and provide insulation.
Watch for symptoms of frostbite. Early signs of frostbite are slight changes in skin color, prickling and numbness. Seek warm shelter if you notice symptoms of frostbite.
Plan to protect yourself. When traveling in cold weather, carry emergency supplies and warm clothing in case you become stranded. If you'll be in remote territory, tell others your route and expected return date.
Don't drink alcohol if you plan to be outdoors in cold weather. Alcoholic beverages cause the body to lose heat faster and can impair judgment.
Eat well-balanced meals and stay hydrated. Doing this even before you go out in the cold helps you stay warm.
Keep moving. Exercise can get your blood flowing and help you stay warm, but don't do it to the point of exhaustion.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Frozen shoulder
Home Remedies
Continue to use the shoulder and arm as much as possible given your pain and range-of-motion limits. Applying heat or cold to your shoulder can help relieve pain.
Symptoms=Frozen shoulder typically develops slowly in three stages.
Freezing stage. Any movement of the shoulder causes pain, and the shoulder's ability to move becomes limited. This stage lasts from 2 to 9 months.
Frozen stage. Pain might lessen during this stage. However, the shoulder becomes stiffer. Using it becomes more difficult. This stage lasts from 4 to 12 months.
Thawing stage. The shoulder's ability to move begins to improve. This stage lasts from 5 to 24 months.
For some people, the pain worsens at night, sometimes disrupting sleep.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The shoulder joint is enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue. Frozen shoulder occurs when this capsule thickens and tightens around the shoulder joint, restricting its movement.
It's unclear why this happens to some people. But it's more likely to happen after keeping a shoulder still for a long period, such as after surgery or an arm fracture.
Risk factors
Certain factors may increase the risk of developing frozen shoulder.
Age and sex
People 40 and older, particularly women, are more likely to have frozen shoulder.
Immobility or reduced mobility
People who've had to keep a shoulder somewhat still are at higher risk of developing frozen shoulder. Restricted movement can be the result of many factors, including:
Rotator cuff injury
Broken arm
Stroke
Recovery from surgery
Systemic diseases
People who have certain diseases appear more likely to develop frozen shoulder. Diseases that might increase risk include:
Diabetes
Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
Cardiovascular disease
Parkinson's disease
Prevention
One of the most common causes of frozen shoulder is not moving a shoulder while recovering from a shoulder injury, broken arm or stroke. If you've had an injury that makes it difficult to move your shoulder, talk to your health care provider about exercises that can help you maintain your ability to move your shoulder joint.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Certain factors may increase the risk of developing frozen shoulder.
Age and sex
People 40 and older, particularly women, are more likely to have frozen shoulder.
Immobility or reduced mobility
People who've had to keep a shoulder somewhat still are at higher risk of developing frozen shoulder. Restricted movement can be the result of many factors, including:
Rotator cuff injury
Broken arm
Stroke
Recovery from surgery
Systemic diseases
People who have certain diseases appear more likely to develop frozen shoulder. Diseases that might increase risk include:
Diabetes
Overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism)
Underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism)
Cardiovascular disease
Parkinson's disease
Prevention
One of the most common causes of frozen shoulder is not moving a shoulder while recovering from a shoulder injury, broken arm or stroke. If you've had an injury that makes it difficult to move your shoulder, talk to your health care provider about exercises that can help you maintain your ability to move your shoulder joint.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
One of the most common causes of frozen shoulder is not moving a shoulder while recovering from a shoulder injury, broken arm or stroke. If you've had an injury that makes it difficult to move your shoulder, talk to your health care provider about exercises that can help you maintain your ability to move your shoulder joint.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Fuchs dystrophy
Home Remedies
Follow instructions from your eye care team to take care of your eyes. You also can try other things to help reduce glare and soothe your eyes.
Use nonprescription salt solution (5% sodium chloride) eye drops or ointment.
Dry your eyes with a hair dryer. Hold it at arm's length and direct warm — not hot — air across your face, especially in the morning when swelling is worse. This helps remove extra fluid in the cornea, which reduces swelling.
Symptoms=As Fuchs dystrophy gets worse, symptoms often affect both eyes. Symptoms may include:
Blurred or cloudy vision, sometimes described as a lack of clear vision.
Changes in vision throughout the day. Symptoms are worse in the morning when you wake up and slowly get better during the day. As the disease gets worse, blurred vision may take longer to get better or does not get better at all.
Glare, which can decrease your vision in dim and bright light.
Seeing halos around lights.
Pain or grittiness from tiny blisters on the surface of your cornea.
Risk Factors
Some factors make it more likely that you'll develop Fuchs dystrophy They include:
Sex. Fuchs dystrophy is more common in women than in men.
Genetics. Having a family history of Fuchs dystrophy increases your risk.
Age. There is a rare early-onset type of Fuchs dystrophy that starts in childhood. Most cases start in the 30s and 40s, but many people with Fuchs dystrophy don't develop symptoms until their 50s or 60s.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2014/07/18/13/44/mcdc7_fuchs_dystrophy.jpg
Condition
Functional dyspepsia
Home Remedies
Your health care provider may recommend lifestyle changes to help you control your functional dyspepsia.
Make changes to your diet
Changes to what you eat and how you eat might help control your symptoms. Try to:
Eat smaller, more-frequent meals. Having an empty stomach sometimes contributes to functional dyspepsia. Nothing but acid in your stomach may make you feel sick. Try eating a small snack such as a cracker or a piece of fruit.
Try not to skip meals. Avoid large meals and overeating. Eat smaller meals more often.
Stay away from trigger foods. Some foods may trigger functional dyspepsia. These may include fatty and spicy foods, carbonated beverages, caffeine, and alcohol.
Chew your food slowly and completely. Allow time to enjoy your meals.
Reduce stress in your daily life
Stress-reduction techniques or relaxation therapy may help you manage your symptoms. To reduce stress, spend time doing hobbies, sports and other things you enjoy.
Symptoms=Symptoms of functional dyspepsia may include:
Pain or burning in the stomach, bloating, excessive belching, or nausea after eating
An early feeling of fullness when eating. The feeling of fullness also is called satiety.
Stomach pain that occurs unrelated to meals or goes away when eating.
Risk Factors
Some factors can increase the risk of functional dyspepsia. They include:
Being female.
Using certain pain relievers that are available without a prescription. These include aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), which can cause stomach problems.
Smoking.
Anxiety or depression.
History of childhood physical or sexual abuse.
Helicobacter pylori infection.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Galactorrhea
Home Remedies
Often, milky discharge associated with idiopathic galactorrhea goes away on its own, particularly if you can avoid breast stimulation or medicines that are known to cause nipple discharge.
To lessen breast stimulation:
Try not to overdo it when touching your nipples during sexual activity.
Avoid squeezing, pinching or otherwise manipulating your nipples.
Wear clothing that minimizes friction between the fabric and your nipples.
Symptoms=Symptoms linked to galactorrhea include:
Milky nipple discharge that may be constant, or it may come and go.
Nipple discharge involving multiple milk ducts.
Spontaneously leaked or manually expressed nipple discharge.
Nipple discharge from one or both breasts.
Absent or irregular menstrual periods.
Headaches or vision problems.
Risk Factors
Anything that triggers the release of the hormone prolactin can increase the risk of galactorrhea. Risk factors include:
Certain medicines, illicit drugs and herbal supplements.
Conditions that affect the pituitary gland, such as noncancerous pituitary tumors.
Certain medical conditions, such as chronic kidney disease, spinal cord injury, injuries to the chest wall and underactive thyroid.
A lot of touching and rubbing of the breasts.
Stress.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ganglion cyst
Home Remedies
What not to do
An old home fix for a ganglion cyst involves hitting the cyst with a heavy object. This isn't a good thing to do. The force of the blow can damage hands or feet. Also, sticking a needle in the cyst to try to "pop" it can lead to infection.
Symptoms=These are common features of ganglion cysts:
Location. Ganglion cysts most often develop along the tendons or joints of wrists or hands. The next most common locations are the ankles and feet. These cysts grow near other joints too.
Shape and size. Ganglion cysts are round or oval. Some are too small to feel. The size of a cyst can change, often getting larger over time with joint movement.
Pain. Ganglion cysts usually are painless. But if a cyst presses on a nerve or other structures, it can cause pain, tingling, numbness or muscle weakness.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of ganglion cysts include:
Sex and age. Ganglion cysts can develop in anyone, but they most often occur in women between the ages of 20 and 40.
Osteoarthritis. People who have wear-and-tear arthritis in the finger joints closest to the fingernails are at higher risk of developing ganglion cysts near those joints.
Joint or tendon injury. Joints or tendons that have been injured are more likely to develop ganglion cysts.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/11/11/ds00767_im00035_mcdc7_ganglion_cystthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Gastritis
Home Remedies
You may find some relief from symptoms if you:
Don't drink alcohol. Alcohol can irritate the mucous lining of your stomach.
Consider switching pain relievers. If you use pain relievers that increase your risk of gastritis, ask your healthcare professional whether acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may be an option for you. This medicine is less likely to stir up your stomach problem.
Symptoms=Gastritis doesn't always cause symptoms. When it does, the symptoms of gastritis may include:
Gnawing or burning ache or pain, called indigestion, in your upper belly. This feeling may become either worse or better after eating.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
A feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of gastritis include:
Bacterial infection. A bacterial infection called Helicobacter pylori, also known as H. pylori, is one of the most common worldwide human infections. However, only some people with the infection develop gastritis or other upper gastrointestinal disorders. Healthcare professionals believe sensitivity to the germs could be inherited. Sensitivity also may be caused by lifestyle choices, such as smoking and diet.
Regular use of pain relievers. Pain relievers known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, also called NSAIDs, can cause both acute gastritis and chronic gastritis. NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve, Anaprox DS). Using these pain relievers regularly or taking too much of these medicines may damage the stomach lining.
Older age. Older adults have an increased risk of gastritis because the stomach lining tends to thin with age. Older adults also have an increased risk because they are more likely to have H. pylori infection or autoimmune disorders than younger people are.
Excessive alcohol use. Alcohol can irritate and break down your stomach lining. This makes your stomach more vulnerable to digestive juices. Excessive alcohol use is more likely to cause acute gastritis.
Stress. Severe stress due to major surgery, injury, burns or severe infections can cause acute gastritis.
Cancer treatment. Chemotherapy medicines or radiation treatment can increase your risk of gastritis.
Your own body attacking cells in your stomach. Called autoimmune gastritis, this type of gastritis occurs when your body attacks the cells that make up your stomach lining. This reaction can wear away at your stomach's protective barrier.
Autoimmune gastritis is more common in people with other autoimmune disorders. These include Hashimoto's disease and type 1 diabetes. Autoimmune gastritis also can be associated with vitamin B-12 deficiency.
Other diseases and conditions. Gastritis may be associated with other medical conditions. These may include HIV/AIDS, Crohn's disease, celiac disease, sarcoidosis and parasitic infections.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes may help reduce the frequency of acid reflux. Try to:
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on the abdomen, pushing up the stomach and causing acid to reflux into the esophagus.
Stop smoking. Smoking decreases the lower esophageal sphincter's ability to function properly.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn while trying to sleep, place wood or cement blocks under the feet at the head end of your bed. Raise the head end by 6 to 9 inches. If you can't elevate your bed, you can insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Raising your head with additional pillows isn't effective.
Start on your left side. When you go to bed, start by lying on your left side to help make it less likely to have reflux.
Don't lie down after a meal. Wait at least three hours after eating before lying down or going to bed.
Eat food slowly and chew thoroughly. Put down your fork after every bite and pick it up again once you have chewed and swallowed that bite.
Don't consume foods and drinks that trigger reflux. Common triggers include alcohol, chocolate, caffeine, fatty foods or peppermint.
Don't wear tight-fitting clothing. Clothes that fit tightly around the waist put pressure on the abdomen and the lower esophageal sphincter.
Symptoms=Common symptoms of GERD include:
A burning sensation in the chest, often called heartburn. Heartburn usually happens after eating and might be worse at night or while lying down.
Backwash of food or sour liquid in the throat.
Upper belly or chest pain.
Trouble swallowing, called dysphagia.
Sensation of a lump in the throat.
If you have nighttime acid reflux, you also might experience:
An ongoing cough.
Inflammation of the vocal cords, known as laryngitis.
New or worsening asthma.
Risk Factors
Hiatal hernia
Enlarge image
Conditions that can increase the risk of GERD include:
Obesity.
Bulging of the top of the stomach up above the diaphragm, known as a hiatal hernia.
Pregnancy.
Connective tissue disorders, such as scleroderma.
Delayed stomach emptying.
Factors that can aggravate acid reflux include:
Smoking.
Eating large meals or eating late at night.
Eating certain foods, such as fatty or fried foods.
Drinking certain beverages, such as alcohol or coffee.
Taking certain medicines, such as aspirin.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Gastroparesis
Home Remedies
If you smoke, stop. Your gastroparesis symptoms are less likely to improve over time if you keep smoking.
Symptoms=Symptoms of gastroparesis include:
Vomiting.
Nausea.
Belly bloating.
Belly pain.
Feeling full after eating just a few bites and long after eating a meal.
Vomiting undigested food eaten a few hours earlier.
Acid reflux.
Changes in blood sugar levels.
Not wanting to eat.
Weight loss and not getting enough nutrients, called malnutrition.
Many people with gastroparesis don't notice any symptoms.
Risk Factors
Factors that can raise the risk of gastroparesis include:
Diabetes.
Surgery on the stomach area or on the tube that connects the throat to the stomach, called the esophagus.
Infection with a virus.
Certain cancers and cancer treatments, such as radiation therapy to the chest or stomach.
Certain medicines that slow the rate of stomach emptying, such as opioid pain medicines.
A condition that causes the skin to harden and tighten, called scleroderma.
Nervous system diseases, such as migraine, Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis.
Underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism.
People assigned female at birth are more likely to get gastroparesis than are people assigned male at birth.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Generalized anxiety disorder
Home Remedies
While most people with anxiety disorders need psychotherapy or medications to get anxiety under control, lifestyle changes also can make a difference. Here's what you can do:
Keep physically active. Develop a routine so that you're physically active most days of the week. Exercise is a powerful stress reducer. It may improve your mood and help you stay healthy. Start out slowly and gradually increase the amount and intensity of your activities.
Make sleep a priority. Do what you can to make sure you're getting enough sleep to feel rested. If you aren't sleeping well, see your doctor.
Use relaxation techniques. Visualization techniques, meditation and yoga are examples of relaxation techniques that can ease anxiety.
Eat healthy. Healthy eating — such as focusing on vegetables, fruits, whole grains and fish — may be linked to reduced anxiety, but more research is needed.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. These substances can worsen anxiety.
Quit smoking and cut back or quit drinking coffee. Both nicotine and caffeine can worsen anxiety.
More Information
Generalized anxiety disorder care at Mayo Clinic
Anxiety and diet
Herbal treatment for anxiety: Is it effective?
Symptoms=Generalized anxiety disorder symptoms can vary. They may include:
Persistent worrying or anxiety about a number of areas that are out of proportion to the impact of the events
Overthinking plans and solutions to all possible worst-case outcomes
Perceiving situations and events as threatening, even when they aren't
Difficulty handling uncertainty
Indecisiveness and fear of making the wrong decision
Inability to set aside or let go of a worry
Inability to relax, feeling restless, and feeling keyed up or on edge
Difficulty concentrating, or the feeling that your mind "goes blank"
Physical signs and symptoms may include:
Fatigue
Trouble sleeping
Muscle tension or muscle aches
Trembling, feeling twitchy
Nervousness or being easily startled
Sweating
Nausea, diarrhea or irritable bowel syndrome
Irritability
There may be times when your worries don't completely consume you, but you still feel anxious even when there's no apparent reason. For example, you may feel intense worry about your safety or that of your loved ones, or you may have a general sense that something bad is about to happen.
Your anxiety, worry or physical symptoms cause you significant distress in social, work or other areas of your life. Worries can shift from one concern to another and may change with time and age.
Symptoms in children and teenagers
Children and teenagers may have similar worries to adults, but also may have excessive worries about:
Performance at school or sporting events
Family members' safety
Being on time (punctuality)
Earthquakes, nuclear war or other catastrophic events
A child or teen with excessive worry may:
Feel overly anxious to fit in
Be a perfectionist
Redo tasks because they aren't perfect the first time
Spend excessive time doing homework
Lack confidence
Strive for approval
Require a lot of reassurance about performance
Have frequent stomachaches or other physical complaints
Avoid going to school or avoid social situations
When to see a doctor
Some anxiety is normal, but see your doctor if:
You feel like you're worrying too much, and it's interfering with your work, relationships or other parts of your life
You feel depressed or irritable, have trouble with drinking or drugs, or you have other mental health concerns along with anxiety
You have suicidal thoughts or behaviors — seek emergency treatment immediately
Your worries are unlikely to simply go away on their own, and they may actually get worse over time. Try to seek professional help before your anxiety becomes severe — it may be easier to treat early on.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
As with many mental health conditions, the cause of generalized anxiety disorder likely arises from a complex interaction of biological and environmental factors, which may include:
Differences in brain chemistry and function
Genetics
Differences in the way threats are perceived
Development and personality
Risk factors
Women are diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder somewhat more often than men are. The following factors may increase the risk of developing generalized anxiety disorder:
Personality. A person whose temperament is timid or negative or who avoids anything dangerous may be more prone to generalized anxiety disorder than others are.
Genetics. Generalized anxiety disorder may run in families.
Experiences. People with generalized anxiety disorder may have a history of significant life changes, traumatic or negative experiences during childhood, or a recent traumatic or negative event. Chronic medical illnesses or other mental health disorders may increase risk.
Complications
Having generalized anxiety disorder can be disabling. It can:
Impair your ability to perform tasks quickly and efficiently because you have trouble concentrating
Take your time and focus from other activities
Sap your energy
Increase your risk of depression
Generalized anxiety disorder can also lead to or worsen other physical health conditions, such as:
Digestive or bowel problems, such as irritable bowel syndrome or ulcers
Headaches and migraines
Chronic pain and illness
Sleep problems and insomnia
Heart-health issues
Generalized anxiety disorder often occurs along with other mental health problems, which can make diagnosis and treatment more challenging. Some mental health disorders that commonly occur with generalized anxiety disorder include:
Phobias
Panic disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Depression
Suicidal thoughts or suicide
Substance abuse
Prevention
There's no way to predict for certain what will cause someone to develop generalized anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you experience anxiety:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Prioritize issues in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even nicotine or caffeine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a treatment program or support group to help you.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Women are diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder somewhat more often than men are. The following factors may increase the risk of developing generalized anxiety disorder:
Personality. A person whose temperament is timid or negative or who avoids anything dangerous may be more prone to generalized anxiety disorder than others are.
Genetics. Generalized anxiety disorder may run in families.
Experiences. People with generalized anxiety disorder may have a history of significant life changes, traumatic or negative experiences during childhood, or a recent traumatic or negative event. Chronic medical illnesses or other mental health disorders may increase risk.
Prevention
There's no way to predict for certain what will cause someone to develop generalized anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you experience anxiety:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Prioritize issues in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even nicotine or caffeine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a treatment program or support group to help you.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Geographic tongue
Home Remedies
Most people with geographic tongue don't experience symptoms. But if you have symptoms, you may reduce pain by staying away from or limiting substances that commonly make sensitive oral tissues feel worse. These substances include spicy or acidic foods or beverages, as well as alcohol and tobacco.
Symptoms=Symptoms of geographic tongue may include:
Smooth, red, irregularly shaped patches on the top or side of your tongue. These patches may look like sores.
Frequent changes in the location, size and shape of the patches.
Pain or burning feeling in some cases, most often related to eating spicy or acidic foods.
Many people with geographic tongue have no symptoms.
Geographic tongue can continue for days, months or years. The problem often goes away on its own, but it may appear again later.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of geographic tongue include:
Family history. Some people with geographic tongue have a family history of it. So genetic factors may raise the risk.
Fissured tongue. People with geographic tongue often have a condition called fissured tongue. This is when deep grooves, called fissures, appear on the surface of the tongue.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Giant cell arteritis
Home Remedies
When giant cell arteritis is diagnosed and treated early, the prognosis is usually excellent. Your symptoms will likely improve quickly after beginning corticosteroid treatment, and your vision isn't likely to be affected.
The following suggestions might help you manage your condition and cope with side effects of your medication:
Eat a healthy diet. Eating well can help prevent potential problems, such as thinning bones, high blood pressure and diabetes. Emphasize fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats and fish, while limiting salt, sugar and alcohol.
Be sure to get enough calcium and vitamin D. Experts recommend 1,200 milligrams (mg) of calcium and 800 international units (IU) of vitamin D a day for women over 50 and men over 70. Check with your doctor to see what dose is right for you.
Exercise regularly. Regular aerobic exercise, such as walking, can help prevent bone loss, high blood pressure and diabetes. It also benefits your heart and lungs. In addition, many people find that exercise improves their mood and overall sense of well-being.
If you're not used to exercising, start out slowly and build up gradually. Your doctor can help you plan an exercise program.
Get checkups. See your doctor regularly to check for side effects of treatment and development of complications.
Ask about aspirin. Ask your doctor about taking between 75 and 150 mg of aspirin daily. Taken daily, low-dose aspirin might reduce the risk of blindness and stroke.
Symptoms=Giant cell arteritis
Enlarge image
The most common symptoms of giant cell arteritis are head pain and tenderness — often severe — that usually affects both temples. Head pain can progressively worsen, come and go, or subside temporarily.
Generally, signs and symptoms of giant cell arteritis include:
Persistent, severe head pain, usually in your temple area
Scalp tenderness
Jaw pain when you chew or open your mouth wide
Fever
Fatigue
Unintended weight loss
Vision loss or double vision, particularly in people who also have jaw pain
Sudden, permanent loss of vision in one eye
Pain and stiffness in the neck, shoulders or hips are common symptoms of a related disorder, polymyalgia rheumatica. About 50 percent of people with giant cell arteritis also have polymyalgia rheumatica.
Risk Factors
Several factors can increase your risk of developing giant cell arteritis, including:
Age. Giant cell arteritis affects adults only, and rarely those under 50. Most people with this condition develop signs and symptoms between the ages of 70 and 80.
Sex. Women are about two times more likely to develop the condition than men are.
Race and geographic region. Giant cell arteritis is most common among white people in Northern European populations or of Scandinavian descent.
Polymyalgia rheumatica. Having polymyalgia rheumatica puts you at increased risk of developing giant cell arteritis.
Family history. Sometimes the condition runs in families.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Gingivitis
Home Remedies
Steps you can take at home to prevent and reverse gingivitis include:
Brush your teeth twice a day or, better yet, after every meal or snack.
Use a soft toothbrush and replace it at least every three months.
Think about using an electric toothbrush, which may remove plaque and tartar better.
Floss daily. If you have a hard time handling dental floss, try a floss holder. Or floss with a dental pick, brush or stick designed to clean between your teeth. Work with your dentist or dental hygienist to determine the best dental tool that fits your needs.
Use a mouth rinse to reduce plaque between your teeth.
Get regular professional dental cleanings on a schedule recommended by your dentist.
Don't smoke or chew tobacco.
Symptoms=Gingivitis
Enlarge image
Healthy gums are firm and pale pink. They fit tightly around the teeth. Symptoms of gingivitis include:
Swollen or puffy gums.
Bright red or dark red gums, or gums that are darker than usual.
Gums that bleed easily when you brush or floss.
Tender gums.
Bad breath.
When to see a dentist
If you notice any symptoms of gingivitis, schedule an appointment with your dentist as soon as possible. The sooner you seek care, the better your chances of reversing damage from gingivitis and not getting periodontitis. Your dentist may want you to see a periodontist if your symptoms aren't improving. This is a dentist with advanced training who specializes in treating gum diseases.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The most common cause of gingivitis is poor care of teeth and gums, which allows plaque to form on teeth. This causes swelling of the surrounding gum tissues.
Here's how plaque can lead to gingivitis:
Plaque forms on your teeth. Plaque is a sticky film that has no color. It's mainly made up of bacteria that form on your teeth after eating starches and sugars in food. Plaque needs to be removed every day because it forms quickly.
Plaque turns into tartar. Plaque that stays on your teeth can harden under your gumline into tartar. This tartar, also known as calculus, then collects bacteria. Tartar makes plaque harder to remove, creates a protective shield for bacteria and irritates the gumline. You need professional dental cleaning to remove tartar.
Gingiva becomes irritated and swells. The gingiva is the part of your gum around the base of your teeth. The longer that plaque and tartar remain on your teeth, the more they irritate the gingiva. In time, your gums become swollen and bleed easily. This is called gingivitis. If not treated, gingivitis can lead to tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss.
Risk factors
Gingivitis is common, and anyone can develop it. Factors that can increase your risk of gingivitis include:
Poor oral care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Older age.
Dry mouth.
Poor nutrition, including not getting enough vitamin C.
Repairs to teeth that don't fit properly or are in poor condition, such as fillings, bridges, dental implants or veneers.
Crooked teeth that are hard to clean.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS or cancer treatment.
Certain drugs, such as phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek, others) for epileptic seizures and some calcium channel blockers used for angina, high blood pressure and other conditions.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy, the menstrual cycle or use of birth control pills.
Certain genes.
Medical conditions, such as certain viral and fungal infections.
Complications
Untreated gingivitis can lead to gum disease that spreads to underlying tissue and bone, called periodontitis. This is a much more serious condition that can lead to tooth loss.
Ongoing gum disease may be related to some diseases that affect the entire body, such as respiratory disease, diabetes, coronary artery disease, stroke and rheumatoid arthritis. Some research suggests that the bacteria responsible for periodontitis can enter your bloodstream through gum tissue, possibly affecting your heart, lungs and other parts of your body. But more studies are needed to confirm a link.
Trench mouth, also known as necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis or NUG, is a severe form of gingivitis that causes painful, infected, bleeding gums and ulcers. Trench mouth is rare today in developed nations, though it's common in developing countries that have poor nutrition and poor living conditions.
Prevention
To prevent gingivitis:
Practice good oral care. That means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice daily — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Better yet, brush after every meal or snack or as your dentist recommends. Flossing before you brush cleans away loosened food particles and bacteria.
Go to the dentist regularly. See your dentist or dental hygienist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often. Annual dental X-rays can help pinpoint diseases not seen by a visual dental exam and watch for changes in your dental health.
Take steps to lead a healthy lifestyle. Practices such as healthy eating and managing blood sugar if you have diabetes, for example, also are important to supporting gum health.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Gingivitis is common, and anyone can develop it. Factors that can increase your risk of gingivitis include:
Poor oral care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Older age.
Dry mouth.
Poor nutrition, including not getting enough vitamin C.
Repairs to teeth that don't fit properly or are in poor condition, such as fillings, bridges, dental implants or veneers.
Crooked teeth that are hard to clean.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS or cancer treatment.
Certain drugs, such as phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek, others) for epileptic seizures and some calcium channel blockers used for angina, high blood pressure and other conditions.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy, the menstrual cycle or use of birth control pills.
Certain genes.
Medical conditions, such as certain viral and fungal infections.
Prevention
To prevent gingivitis:
Practice good oral care. That means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice daily — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Better yet, brush after every meal or snack or as your dentist recommends. Flossing before you brush cleans away loosened food particles and bacteria.
Go to the dentist regularly. See your dentist or dental hygienist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often. Annual dental X-rays can help pinpoint diseases not seen by a visual dental exam and watch for changes in your dental health.
Take steps to lead a healthy lifestyle. Practices such as healthy eating and managing blood sugar if you have diabetes, for example, also are important to supporting gum health.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/24/ds00363_da00013_im01745_gingivitisthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Glaucoma
Home Remedies
These tips may help you control high eye pressure or promote eye health.
Eat a healthy diet. Eating a healthy diet can help you maintain your health, but it won't prevent glaucoma from worsening. Several vitamins and nutrients are important to eye health, including zinc, copper, selenium and antioxidant vitamins C, E and A.
Exercise safely. Regular exercise may reduce eye pressure. Talk to your health care provider about an appropriate exercise program.
Limit your caffeine. Drinking beverages with large amounts of caffeine may increase your eye pressure.
Sip fluids carefully. Drink moderate amounts of fluids. Drinking a quart or more of any liquid within a short time may temporarily increase eye pressure.
Take prescribed medicine. Using your eye drops or other medicines as prescribed can help you get the best possible result from your treatment. Be sure to use the drops exactly as prescribed. Otherwise, your optic nerve damage could get worse.
Symptoms=The symptoms of glaucoma depend on the type and stage of your condition.
Open-angle glaucoma
No symptoms in early stages
Gradually, patchy blind spots in your side vision. Side vision also is known as peripheral vision
In later stages, difficulty seeing things in your central vision
Acute angle-closure glaucoma
Severe headache
Severe eye pain
Nausea or vomiting
Blurred vision
Halos or colored rings around lights
Eye redness
Normal-tension glaucoma
No symptoms in early stages
Gradually, blurred vision
In later stages, loss of side vision
Glaucoma in children
A dull or cloudy eye (infants)
Increased blinking (infants)
Tears without crying (infants)
Blurred vision
Nearsightedness that gets worse
Headache
Pigmentary glaucoma
Halos around lights
Blurred vision with exercise
Gradual loss of side vision
Risk Factors
Glaucoma can damage vision before you notice any symptoms. So be aware of these risk factors:
High internal eye pressure, also known as intraocular pressure
Age over 55
Black, Asian or Hispanic heritage
Family history of glaucoma
Certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, migraines, high blood pressure and sickle cell anemia
Corneas that are thin in the center
Extreme nearsightedness or farsightedness
Eye injury or certain types of eye surgery
Taking corticosteroid medicines, especially eye drops, for a long time
Some people have narrow drainage angles, putting them at increased risk of angle-closure glaucoma.
Prevention
These steps may help detect and manage glaucoma in its early stages. That may help to prevent vision loss or slow its progress.
Get regular eye examinations. Regular comprehensive eye exams can help detect glaucoma in its early stages, before significant damage occurs. As a general rule, the American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends a comprehensive eye exam every 5 to 10 years if you're under 40 years old; every 2 to 4 years if you're 40 to 54 years old; every 1 to 3 years if you're 55 to 64 years old; and every 1 to 2 years if you're older than 65.
If you're at risk of glaucoma, you'll need more frequent screening. Ask your health care provider to recommend the right screening schedule for you.
Know your family's eye health history. Glaucoma tends to run in families. If you're at increased risk, you may need more frequent screening.
Wear eye protection. Serious eye injuries can lead to glaucoma. Wear eye protection when using power tools or playing sports.
Take prescribed eye drops regularly. Glaucoma eye drops can significantly reduce the risk that high eye pressure will progress to glaucoma. Use eye drops as prescribed by your health care provider even if you have no symptoms.


The Mayo Clinic experience and patient stories
Our patients tell us that the quality of their interactions, our attention to detail and the efficiency of their visits mean health care like they've never experienced. See the stories of satisfied Mayo Clinic patients.
Staying the course through follow-up care and therapeutic drug monitoring
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
These steps may help detect and manage glaucoma in its early stages. That may help to prevent vision loss or slow its progress.
Get regular eye examinations. Regular comprehensive eye exams can help detect glaucoma in its early stages, before significant damage occurs. As a general rule, the American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends a comprehensive eye exam every 5 to 10 years if you're under 40 years old; every 2 to 4 years if you're 40 to 54 years old; every 1 to 3 years if you're 55 to 64 years old; and every 1 to 2 years if you're older than 65.
If you're at risk of glaucoma, you'll need more frequent screening. Ask your health care provider to recommend the right screening schedule for you.
Know your family's eye health history. Glaucoma tends to run in families. If you're at increased risk, you may need more frequent screening.
Wear eye protection. Serious eye injuries can lead to glaucoma. Wear eye protection when using power tools or playing sports.
Take prescribed eye drops regularly. Glaucoma eye drops can significantly reduce the risk that high eye pressure will progress to glaucoma. Use eye drops as prescribed by your health care provider even if you have no symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Glomerulonephritis
Home Remedies
If you have kidney disease, your doctor might recommend certain lifestyle changes:
Lower your salt intake to prevent or minimize fluid retention, swelling and hypertension.
Consume less protein and potassium to slow the buildup of wastes in your blood.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Take your medications as directed by your health care provider.
Control your blood sugar level if you have diabetes.
Quit smoking.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of glomerulonephritis may vary depending on whether you have the acute or chronic form and the cause. You may notice no symptoms of chronic disease. Your first indication that something is wrong might come from the results of a routine urine test (urinalysis).
Glomerulonephritis signs and symptoms may include:
Pink or cola-colored urine from red blood cells in your urine (hematuria).
Foamy or bubbly urine due to excess protein in the urine (proteinuria).
High blood pressure (hypertension).
Fluid retention (edema) with swelling evident in your face, hands, feet and abdomen.
Urinating less than usual.
Nausea and vomiting.
Muscle cramps.
Fatigue.
Risk Factors
Some autoimmune diseases are linked with glomerulonephritis.
Prevention
There may be no way to prevent some forms of glomerulonephritis. However, here are some steps that might be beneficial:
Seek prompt treatment of a strep infection with a sore throat or impetigo.
To prevent infections that can lead to some forms of glomerulonephritis, such as HIV and hepatitis, follow safe-sex guidelines and avoid intravenous drug use.
Control high blood pressure, which lessens the likelihood of damage to your kidneys from hypertension.
Control your blood sugar to help prevent diabetic nephropathy.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Gout
Home Remedies
Medications are often the most effective way to treat gout attacks and prevent recurrent symptom flares. However, lifestyle choices also are important, and you may want to:
Choose healthier beverages. Limit alcoholic beverages and drinks sweetened with fruit sugar (fructose). Instead, drink plenty of nonalcoholic beverages, especially water.
Avoid foods high in purines. Red meat and organ meats, such as liver, are especially high in purines. Purine-rich seafood includes anchovies, sardines, mussels, scallops, trout and tuna. Low-fat dairy products may be a better source of protein for people prone to gout.
Exercise regularly and lose weight. Keeping your body at a healthy weight reduces your risk of gout. Choose low-impact activities such as walking, bicycling and swimming — which are easier on your joints.
Symptoms=Gout
Enlarge image
The signs and symptoms of gout almost always occur suddenly, and often at night. They include:
Intense joint pain. Gout usually affects the big toe, but it can occur in any joint. Other commonly affected joints include the ankles, knees, elbows, wrists and fingers. The pain is likely to be most severe within the first four to 12 hours after it begins.
Lingering discomfort. After the most severe pain subsides, some joint discomfort may last from a few days to a few weeks. Later attacks are likely to last longer and affect more joints.
Inflammation and redness. The affected joint or joints become swollen, tender, warm and red.
Limited range of motion. As gout progresses, you may not be able to move your joints normally.
Risk Factors
You're more likely to develop gout if you have high levels of uric acid in your body. Factors that increase the uric acid level in your body include:
Diet. Eating a diet rich in red meat and shellfish and drinking beverages sweetened with fruit sugar (fructose) increase levels of uric acid, which increase your risk of gout. Alcohol consumption, especially of beer, also increases the risk of gout.
Weight. If you're overweight, your body produces more uric acid and your kidneys have a more difficult time eliminating uric acid.
Medical conditions. Certain diseases and conditions increase your risk of gout. These include untreated high blood pressure and chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and heart and kidney diseases.
Certain medications. Low-dose aspirin and some medications used to control hypertension — including thiazide diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta blockers — also can increase uric acid levels. So can the use of anti-rejection drugs prescribed for people who have undergone an organ transplant.
Family history of gout. If other members of your family have had gout, you're more likely to develop the disease.
Age and sex. Gout occurs more often in men, primarily because women tend to have lower uric acid levels. After menopause, however, women's uric acid levels approach those of men. Men are also more likely to develop gout earlier — usually between the ages of 30 and 50 — whereas women generally develop signs and symptoms after menopause.
Recent surgery or trauma. Experiencing recent surgery or trauma can sometimes trigger a gout attack. In some people, receiving a vaccination can trigger a gout flare.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Graves' disease
Home Remedies
If you have Graves' disease, it's important to take care of your mental and physical health. This includes:
Eating well and exercising. These can help ease some symptoms during treatment and help you feel better overall. Your thyroid controls how you burn calories. So you may gain weight when the hyperthyroidism is corrected.
Brittle bones also can happen with Graves' disease. Weight-bearing exercises can help keep bones strong.
Easing stress. Stress can trigger Graves' disease or make it worse. Listening to music, taking a warm bath or walking can help you relax and put you in a better mood.
Work with your healthcare team to design a plan that makes eating well, exercising and relaxing part of each day.
Thyroid eye disease
For thyroid eye disease, also called Graves' ophthalmopathy, these steps may help:
Put cool, damp cloths on your eyes. This can soothe your eyes.
Wear sunglasses. Ultraviolet rays and bright lights can affect your eyes more if they bulge. Wearing sunglasses that wrap around the sides of your head can help. And they also can keep wind from bothering your eyes.
Use lubricating eye drops. Eye drops may relieve the dry, scratchy feeling of your eyes. Try a lubricating gel at night.
Raise the head of your bed. Keeping your head higher than the rest of your body lessens fluid buildup in the head and may ease the pressure on your eyes.
Tape shut the eyelids. If your eyelids don't close all the way, taping them shut during sleep or wearing a sleep mask might help.
Don't smoke. Smoking worsens thyroid eye disease.
Graves' dermopathy
If Graves' disease affects your skin, use creams or ointments that have hydrocortisone. You can buy these without a prescription. The hydrocortisone can ease swelling. Using compression wraps on your legs also may help.
Symptoms=Enlarged thyroid
Enlarge image
Common symptoms of Graves' disease include:
Feeling nervous and irritable.
Having a slight tremor of the hands or fingers.
Being sensitive to heat with an increase in sweating or warm, moist skin.
Losing weight, despite wanting to eat more.
Having an enlarged thyroid gland, also called goiter.
Having changes in menstrual cycles.
Not being able to get or keep an erection, called erectile dysfunction, or having less desire for sex.
Having bowel movements often.
Having bulging eyes — a condition called thyroid eye disease or Graves' ophthalmopathy.
Being tired.
Having thick, discolored skin mostly on the shins or tops of the feet, called Graves' dermopathy.
Having fast or irregular heartbeat, called palpitations.
Not sleeping well.
Thyroid eye disease
Thyroid eye disease
Enlarge image
Thyroid eye disease also is called Graves' ophthalmopathy. About 25% of people with Graves' disease have eye symptoms. Thyroid eye disease affects muscles and other tissues around the eyes. Symptoms may include:
Bulging eyes.
A gritty feeling in the eyes.
Pressure or pain in the eyes.
Puffy eyelids or eyelids that don't cover the eyeball all the way. This is called retracted eyelids.
Red or inflamed eyes.
Light sensitivity.
Blurred or double vision.
Vision loss.
Graves' dermopathy
Graves' dermopathy
Enlarge image
Rarely, people with Graves' disease have darkening and thickening of the skin. It most often appears on the shins or the tops of the feet. The skin has a texture like an orange peel.
This is called Graves' dermopathy. It comes from a buildup of protein in the skin. It's most often mild and painless.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of Graves' disease include:
Family history. People who get Graves' disease often have a family history of thyroid conditions or an autoimmune condition.
Sex. Women are much more likely to get Graves' disease than are men.
Age. Graves' disease mostly happens between the ages of 30 and 60.
Another autoimmune condition. People with other conditions of the immune system, such as type 1 diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis, have a higher risk.
Smoking. Cigarette smoking, which can affect the immune system, raises the risk of Graves' disease. People who smoke and have Graves' disease are at higher risk of getting thyroid eye disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Headache
Home Remedies
Apply a cold or warm compress to the forehead.Stay hydrated; dehydration can cause headaches.Caffeine in small amounts to alleviate pain.Essential oils like peppermint on temples.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Heartburn
Home Remedies
Avoid foods that trigger acid reflux (spicy, fatty, or acidic foods).Eating smaller meals.Ginger tea to reduce inflammation.Aloe vera juice before meals.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
IgA nephropathy (Berger disease)
Home Remedies
To help keep your kidneys healthier:
Take steps to lower your blood pressure. This can help slow kidney damage from IgA nephropathy. Start with some healthy lifestyle changes. Limit how much sodium and fat you eat. Lose any extra weight. Get regular exercise. And if you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Also take your blood pressure medicines as prescribed.
Keep track of your blood pressure at home. If your health care team asks you to do this, write down each blood pressure reading. Then bring the record with you to checkups.
Eat less protein. Ask your doctor if you should cut back on protein. This may help slow IgA nephropathy from becoming worse and protect your kidneys.
Symptoms=IgA nephropathy often doesn't cause symptoms early on. You might not notice any health effects for 10 years or more. Sometimes, routine medical tests find signs of the disease, such as protein and red blood cells in the urine that are seen under a microscope.
When IgA nephropathy causes symptoms, they might include:
Cola- or tea-colored urine caused by blood. You might notice these color changes after a cold, sore throat or respiratory infection.
Blood that can be seen in the urine.
Foamy urine from protein leaking into the urine. This is called proteinuria.
Pain on one or both sides of the back below the ribs.
Swelling in the hands and feet called edema.
High blood pressure.
Weakness and tiredness.
If the disease leads to kidney failure, symptoms may include:
Rashes and itchy skin.
Muscle cramps.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Less appetite.
Metallic taste in the mouth.
Confusion.
Kidney failure is life-threatening without treatment. But dialysis or a kidney transplant can help people live for many more years.
Risk Factors
The exact cause of IgA nephropathy is unknown. But these factors might raise the risk of getting it:
Sex. In North America and Western Europe, IgA nephropathy affects at least twice as many men as it does women.
Ethnicity. IgA nephropathy is more common in white people and people of Asian descent than it is in Black people.
Age. IgA nephropathy most often develops between the mid-teens and mid-30s.
Family history. IgA nephropathy appears to run in some families.
Prevention
You can't prevent IgA nephropathy. Talk with your doctor if you have a family history of the disease. Ask what you can do to keep your kidneys healthy. For example, it helps to lower high blood pressure and keep cholesterol at healthy levels.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Illness anxiety disorder
Home Remedies
In addition to profession treatment for illness anxiety disorder, these self-care steps can help:
Work with your provider. Work with your primary care provider or mental health professional to determine a regular schedule for visits to discuss your concerns and build a trusting relationship. Discuss setting reasonable limits on tests, evaluations and specialist referrals. Avoid seeking advice from multiple doctors or emergency room visits that can make your care harder to coordinate and may subject you to duplicate testing.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. Learning stress management and relaxation methods, such as progressive muscle relaxation, may help reduce anxiety.
Get physically active. A graduated activity program may have a calming effect on your mood, reduce your anxiety and help improve your physical functioning.
Participate in activities. Staying involved in your work, as well as social and family activities, can provide you with support.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. Substance use can make your care more difficult. Talk to your primary care provider if you need help quitting.
Avoid searching the internet for possible diseases. The vast amount of health information that may or may not be related to your situation can cause confusion and anxiety. If you have symptoms that concern you, talk to your primary care provider at your next scheduled appointment.
Symptoms=Symptoms of illness anxiety disorder involve preoccupation with the idea that you're seriously ill, based on normal body sensations (such as a noisy stomach) or minor signs (such as a minor rash). Signs and symptoms may include:
Being preoccupied with having or getting a serious disease or health condition
Worrying that minor symptoms or body sensations mean you have a serious illness
Being easily alarmed about your health status
Finding little or no reassurance from doctor visits or negative test results
Worrying excessively about a specific medical condition or your risk of developing a medical condition because it runs in your family
Having so much distress about possible illnesses that it's hard for you to function
Repeatedly checking your body for signs of illness or disease
Frequently making medical appointments for reassurance — or avoiding medical care for fear of being diagnosed with a serious illness
Avoiding people, places or activities for fear of health risks
Constantly talking about your health and possible illnesses
Frequently searching the internet for causes of symptoms or possible illnesses
Risk Factors
Illness anxiety disorder usually begins in early or middle adulthood and may get worse with age. Often for older individuals, health-related anxiety may focus on the fear of losing their memory.
Risk factors for illness anxiety disorder may include:
A time of major life stress
Threat of a serious illness that turns out not to be serious
History of abuse as a child
A serious childhood illness or a parent with a serious illness
Personality traits, such as having a tendency toward being a worrier
Excessive health-related internet use
Prevention
Little is known about how to prevent illness anxiety disorder, but these suggestions may help.
If you have problems with anxiety, seek professional advice as soon as possible to help stop symptoms from getting worse and impairing your quality of life.
Learn to recognize when you're stressed and how this affects your body — and regularly practice stress management and relaxation techniques.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
Home Remedies
If you have immune thrombocytopenia, try to:
Avoid contact sports. Getting hit in the head during sports like boxing, martial arts and football could cause bleeding in the brain. Talk to your health care provider about what activities are safe.
Watch for signs of infection. If you've had your spleen removed, look for signs of infection, including fever. Get treatment quickly. Infections can be worse in people without spleens.
Take care with medicines you get without a prescription. Medicines such as aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) can increase bleeding risk.
Symptoms=Petechiae
Enlarge image
Immune thrombocytopenia might not have symptoms. When symptoms occur, they might include:
Easy bruising.
Bleeding into the skin that looks like tiny reddish-purple spots, also known as petechiae. The spots mostly show up on the lower legs. They look like a rash.
Bleeding into the skin that's larger than petechiae, also known as purpura.
Bleeding from the gums or nose.
Blood in urine or stools.
Really heavy menstrual flow.
Risk Factors
ITP is more common among young women. The risk appears to be higher in people who also have other diseases in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Incompetent cervix
Home Remedies
If you have an incompetent cervix, your doctor might suggest limiting sexual activity or avoiding certain other physical activities. This advice will depend on your individual situation.
Symptoms=With an incompetent cervix, there may be no signs or symptoms during early pregnancy. Some women have mild discomfort or spotting before the diagnosis. Often, this occurs before 24 weeks of pregnancy.
Be on the lookout for:
A feeling of pelvic pressure.
A new backache.
Mild stomach cramps.
A change in vaginal discharge.
Light vaginal bleeding.
Request an appointment

  Women’s health topics - straight to your inbox
Get the latest information from our Mayo Clinic experts on women’s health topics, serious and complex conditions, wellness and more. Click to view a preview and subscribe below.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe
Risk factors
Many women don't have a known risk factor. Risk factors for an incompetent cervix include:
Cervical trauma. A previous procedure or surgery on the cervix could lead to an incompetent cervix. This includes surgery to treat a cervical problem found during a Pap test. A procedure called a dilation and curettage (D&C) also could be associated with an incompetent cervix. Rarely, a cervical tear during a previous labor and delivery could be a risk factor for an incompetent cervix.
A condition you're born with. This is called a congenital condition. Certain uterine conditions might cause an incompetent cervix. Genetic problems affecting a type of protein that makes up your body's connective tissues, called collagen, might cause an incompetent cervix.
Complications
An incompetent cervix may be risky for your pregnancy. Possible complications include:
Premature birth.
Pregnancy loss.
Prevention
You can't prevent an incompetent cervix. But there's a lot you can do to have a healthy, full-term pregnancy. For example:
Seek regular prenatal care. Regular checkups during pregnancy can help your care team monitor your health and your baby's health. Tell your doctor about any signs or problems that worry you, even if they seem silly or not important.
Eat a healthy diet. During pregnancy, you'll need more folic acid, calcium, iron and other essential nutrients. Taking a daily prenatal vitamin can help if you're not eating enough healthy foods. Prenatal vitamins can be started a few months before conception and continued throughout your pregnancy.
Gain weight wisely. Gaining the right amount of weight can support your baby's health. A weight gain of 25 to 35 pounds, or about 11 to 16 kilograms, is often the target if you are at a healthy weight before pregnancy.
Avoid risky substances. If you smoke, quit. Alcohol and illegal drugs are off-limits too. Get your doctor's OK before taking any medicines or supplements, even those available without a prescription.
If you've had an incompetent cervix during one pregnancy, you're at risk of premature birth or pregnancy loss in later pregnancies. If you're considering getting pregnant again, talk with your doctor to understand the risks and what you can do to promote a healthy pregnancy.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Many women don't have a known risk factor. Risk factors for an incompetent cervix include:
Cervical trauma. A previous procedure or surgery on the cervix could lead to an incompetent cervix. This includes surgery to treat a cervical problem found during a Pap test. A procedure called a dilation and curettage (D&C) also could be associated with an incompetent cervix. Rarely, a cervical tear during a previous labor and delivery could be a risk factor for an incompetent cervix.
A condition you're born with. This is called a congenital condition. Certain uterine conditions might cause an incompetent cervix. Genetic problems affecting a type of protein that makes up your body's connective tissues, called collagen, might cause an incompetent cervix.
Prevention
You can't prevent an incompetent cervix. But there's a lot you can do to have a healthy, full-term pregnancy. For example:
Seek regular prenatal care. Regular checkups during pregnancy can help your care team monitor your health and your baby's health. Tell your doctor about any signs or problems that worry you, even if they seem silly or not important.
Eat a healthy diet. During pregnancy, you'll need more folic acid, calcium, iron and other essential nutrients. Taking a daily prenatal vitamin can help if you're not eating enough healthy foods. Prenatal vitamins can be started a few months before conception and continued throughout your pregnancy.
Gain weight wisely. Gaining the right amount of weight can support your baby's health. A weight gain of 25 to 35 pounds, or about 11 to 16 kilograms, is often the target if you are at a healthy weight before pregnancy.
Avoid risky substances. If you smoke, quit. Alcohol and illegal drugs are off-limits too. Get your doctor's OK before taking any medicines or supplements, even those available without a prescription.
If you've had an incompetent cervix during one pregnancy, you're at risk of premature birth or pregnancy loss in later pregnancies. If you're considering getting pregnant again, talk with your doctor to understand the risks and what you can do to promote a healthy pregnancy.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Indigestion
Home Remedies
Mild indigestion can often be helped with lifestyle changes, including:
Eating smaller, more-frequent meals. Chew your food slowly and thoroughly.
Not eating certain foods. Fatty and spicy foods, processed foods, carbonated beverages, caffeine, alcohol, and smoking can trigger indigestion.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your abdomen, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus.
Exercising regularly. Exercise helps you keep off extra weight and promotes better digestion.
Managing stress. Create a calm environment at mealtime. Practice relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing, meditation or yoga. Spend time doing things you enjoy. Get plenty of sleep.
Changing your medicines. With your health care provider's approval, stop or cut back on pain relievers or other medicines that may irritate your stomach lining. If that's not an option, be sure to take these medicines with food.
Symptoms=If you have indigestion, you may have:
Early fullness during a meal. You haven't eaten much of your meal, but you already feel full and may not be able to finish eating.
Uncomfortable fullness after a meal. The feeling of fullness lasts longer than it should.
Discomfort in the upper abdomen. You feel a mild to severe pain in the area between the bottom of your breastbone and your bellybutton.
Burning in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable heat or burning sensation between the bottom of your breastbone and your bellybutton.
Bloating in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable sensation of tightness in your upper abdomen.
Nausea. You feel as if you want to vomit.
Less frequent symptoms include vomiting and belching.
Sometimes people with indigestion also experience heartburn. Heartburn is a pain or burning feeling in the center of your chest that may radiate into your neck or back during or after eating.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Infant reflux
Home Remedies
To minimize reflux:
Feed your baby in an upright position. Then, hold your baby in a sitting position for 30 minutes after feeding. Gravity can help stomach contents stay where they belong. Be careful not to jostle or jiggle your baby while the food is settling.
Try smaller, more frequent feedings. Feed your baby a little bit less than usual if you're bottle-feeding, or cut back a little on nursing time.
Take time to burp your baby. Frequent burps during and after feeding can keep air from building up in your baby's stomach.
Put baby to sleep on the back. Most babies should be placed on their backs to sleep, even if they have reflux.
Keep in mind that infant reflux is usually little cause for concern. Just keep plenty of burp cloths handy as you wait for your baby's reflux to stop.
Symptoms=In most cases, infant reflux isn't a cause for concern. It's unusual for stomach contents to have enough acid to irritate the throat or esophagus and cause symptoms.
Risk Factors
Infant reflux is common. But some things make it more likely that a baby will experience infant reflux. These include:
Premature birth
Lung conditions, such as cystic fibrosis
Conditions that affect the nervous system, such as cerebral palsy
Previous surgery on the esophagus
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
Home Remedies
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing inflammatory bowel disease. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
Diet
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to keep track of what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating those foods.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help you manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant — that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help as well.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of liquids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Consider multivitamins. Because Crohn's disease can interfere with your ability to absorb nutrients and because your diet may be limited, multivitamin and mineral supplements are often helpful. Check with your doctor before taking any vitamins or supplements.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Smoking
Smoking increases your risk of developing Crohn's disease, and once you have it, smoking can make it worse. People with Crohn's disease who smoke are more likely to have relapses and need medications and repeat surgeries.
Smoking may help prevent ulcerative colitis. However, its harm to overall health outweighs any benefit, and quitting smoking can improve the general health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Stress
The association of stress with Crohn's disease is controversial, but many people who have the disease report symptom flares during high-stress periods. If you have trouble managing stress, try one of these strategies:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and normalize bowel function. Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique may train you to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. One way to cope with stress is to regularly relax and use techniques such as deep, slow breathing to calm down.
Symptoms=Inflammatory bowel disease symptoms vary, depending on the severity of inflammation and where it occurs. Symptoms may range from mild to severe. You are likely to have periods of active illness followed by periods of remission.
Signs and symptoms that are common to both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis include:
Diarrhea
Fatigue
Abdominal pain and cramping
Blood in your stool
Reduced appetite
Unintended weight loss
Risk Factors
Age. Most people who develop IBD are diagnosed before they're 30 years old. But some people don't develop the disease until their 50s or 60s.
Race or ethnicity. Although IBD is more common in white people, it can occur in any race. Cases are also increasing in other races and ethnicities.
Family history. You're at higher risk if you have a close relative — such as a parent, sibling or child — with the disease.
Cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoking is the most important controllable risk factor for developing Crohn's disease.
Smoking may help prevent ulcerative colitis. However, its harm to overall health outweighs any benefit, and quitting smoking can improve the general health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve), diclofenac sodium and others. These medications may increase the risk of developing IBD or worsen the disease in people who have IBD.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Influenza (flu)
Home Remedies
If you have the flu, these measures may help ease your symptoms:
Drink plenty of liquids. Choose water, juice and warm soups to help keep fluids in your body.
Rest. Get more sleep to help your immune system fight infection. You may need to change your activity level, depending on your symptoms.
Consider pain relievers. Use acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) for fever, headache or achiness associated with influenza. Children and teens recovering from flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin because of the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal condition.
To help control the spread of influenza in your community, stay home and keep sick children home until the fever is gone, without the use of medicine, for 24 hours. Unless you're going to a medical appointment, avoid being around other people until you're feeling better. If you need to leave your home to get medical care, wear a face mask. Wash your hands often.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=The viruses that cause flu spread at high levels during certain times of the year in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. These are called flu seasons. In North America, flu season usually runs between October and May.
Symptoms of the flu such as a sore throat and a runny or stuffy nose are common. You may also get these symptoms with other illness such as a cold. But colds tend to start slowly, and the flu tends to come on quickly, within two or three days after you come in contact with the virus. And while a cold can be miserable, you usually feel much worse with the flu.
Other common flu symptoms include:
Fever.
Cough.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Feeling very tired.
Sweating and chills.
In children, these symptoms may show up more generally as being fussy or irritable. Children also are more likely than adults to have ear pain, feel sick to the stomach, vomit or have diarrhea with the flu.
In some cases, people have eye pain, watery eyes or find that light hurts their eyes.
Related information
COVID-19 vs. flu: Similarities and differences - Related information
COVID-19 vs. flu: Similarities and differences
COVID-19, cold, allergies and the flu: What are the differences? - Related information
COVID-19, cold, allergies and the flu: What are the differences?
Risk Factors
There are a range of factors that may raise your risk of catching a flu virus or having complications from a flu infection.
Older and younger age
Seasonal influenza tends to have worse outcomes in young children, especially those age 2 years and younger. Adults older than age 65 also tend to have worse outcomes.
Living conditions
People who live in facilities with many other residents, such as nursing homes, are more likely to get the flu.
Weakened immune system
An immune system that doesn't quickly clear out flu virus may raise the risk of getting the flu or getting flu complications. People may have a weakened immune system response from birth, due to illness, or due to disease treatment or medicine.
Chronic illnesses
Chronic conditions may increase the risk of influenza complications. Examples include asthma and other lung diseases, diabetes, heart disease, nervous system diseases, previous history of stroke, metabolic disorders, problems with the airway, and kidney, liver or blood disease.
Race or ethnicity
In the United States, people who are Native American or Alaska Native, Black, or Latino may have a higher risk of needing care in the hospital for influenza.
Aspirin therapy
Young people on long-term aspirin therapy are at risk of developing Reye's syndrome if infected with the influenza virus.
Pregnancy
Pregnant people are more likely to develop influenza complications, particularly in the second and third trimesters.
Obesity
People with a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher have an increased risk of flu complications.
Prevention
Flu vaccines at Mayo Clinic
Mayo Clinic offers flu shots in Arizona, Florida and Minnesota.
Learn more about how to get your flu shot at Mayo Clinic.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends annual flu vaccination for people age 6 months and older who do not have a medical reason to avoid the vaccine.
Getting a flu vaccine lowers:
The risk of getting the flu. If the vaccine is given later in pregnancy, the flu vaccine helps protect a newborn from the flu too.
The risk of having serious illness from the flu and needing to stay in the hospital due to the flu.
The risk of dying of the flu.
The 2024-2025 seasonal flu vaccines each provide protection against three influenza viruses that researchers expect to be the most common this flu season.
The vaccine is available as a shot, a jet injector and a nasal spray.
For older children and adults, the flu shot is usually given in a muscle in the arm. Younger children may get the flu shot in a thigh muscle.
If you are an adult under the age of 65, you can choose to get your vaccine with a jet injector. Instead of a needle, this device uses a high-pressure, narrow stream of fluid to go through the skin.
The nasal spray is approved for people between ages 2 and 49 years old. It isn't recommended for some groups, such as:
People who had a severe allergic reaction to a flu vaccine in the past.
Pregnant people.
Young people who take aspirin or a salicylate-containing medicine.
People with weakened immune systems and people who are caregivers or close contacts of people with weakened immune systems.
Children between ages 2 and 4 years old diagnosed with asthma or wheezing in the past 12 months.
People who recently took antiviral medicine for the flu.
People with a cerebrospinal fluid leak or the potential for a leak, as with a cochlear implant.
Check with your healthcare team to see if you need to be cautious about getting a nasal spray flu vaccine.
There also are vaccines offered called high-dose or adjuvanted flu vaccines. These vaccines may help some people avoid the need for care in the hospital due to influenza. People over age 65 can get these vaccines. These vaccines also are recommended for people age 18 and older who have a solid organ transplant and take medicine to weaken their immune response.
If you have an egg allergy, you can still get a flu vaccine.
The first time children between 6 months and 8 years get a flu vaccine, they may need two doses given at least four weeks apart. After that, they can receive single annual doses of the flu vaccine. Check with your child's healthcare professional.
Also, check with your healthcare team before receiving a flu vaccine if you had a serious reaction to a previous flu vaccine. People who have had Guillain-Barre syndrome also should check with a healthcare professional before getting the flu vaccine. And if you feel sick when you go to get the shot, check with your healthcare team to see if you should delay getting the vaccine.
Controlling the spread of infection
The influenza vaccine isn't 100% effective. So it's important to take steps to lower the spread of infection, including:
Wash your hands. Wash your hands well and often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water aren't available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Make sure friends and family that you're around regularly, especially kids, know the importance of hand-washing.
Avoid touching your face. Keeping your hands away from your eyes, nose and mouth helps keep germs away from those places.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Cough or sneeze into a tissue or your elbow. Then wash your hands.
Clean surfaces. Regularly clean often-touched surfaces to prevent spread of infection from touching a surface with the virus on it and then your face.
Avoid crowds. The flu spreads easily wherever people gather — in child care centers, schools, office buildings and auditoriums and on public transportation. By avoiding crowds during peak flu season, you lower your chances of infection.
Also avoid anyone who is sick.
If you're sick, stay home until you feel better and have had no fever for a full 24 hours, and you haven't taken medicine for fever during that time. If your fever returns or you start to feel worse, stay apart from others until your symptoms improve and you are fever-free without medicine for 24 hours. Doing so will lower your chance of infecting others.
More Information
Flu shots
Cold and flu viruses: How long can they live outside the body?
High-dose flu vaccines: How are they different from other flu vaccines?
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ingrown hair
Home Remedies
Shaving too close can cause skin problems
Show transcript
for video Shaving too close can cause skin problems
If you have razor bumps but can't stop shaving, develop a consistent skin care routine such as the following to help control this condition:
Shave at least twice a week.
Don't tweeze ingrown hairs.
Before shaving wash the affected area using a warm washcloth or soft-bristled toothbrush. Use a circular motion for a few minutes.
Apply a warm, damp cloth for a few more minutes.
Apply shaving cream — don't let it dry out — and use a sharp, single-blade razor.
Don't pull your skin while shaving.
Shave in the direction of hair growth.
Rinse the blade after each stroke.
Release visible ingrown hairs by inserting a sterile needle under each hair loop and gently lifting the tip that has grown back into the skin.
Rinse your skin and apply a cool, wet cloth for a few minutes. Then use a soothing after-shave product. If needed, try using a 1% hydrocortisone cream for no more than four weeks.
If you're able, avoid close shaves. Try using an electric clippers. Set it to leave stubble. If shaving worsens your condition, you might want to try a chemical hair removal product (depilatory), such as Nair, Magic, others. Test it on a small patch of hair first.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of ingrown hair include:
Tiny, swollen bumps where you shave, tweeze or wax
Small bumps that look like blisters or are filled with pus
Small bumps that are darker than surrounding skin (hyperpigmentation)
Burning or stinging
Itching
Hair in the shape of a loop because the tip of the hair curves and grows into the skin
Risk Factors
The main risk factor for ingrown hair is having tightly curled hair.
Prevention
To help prevent ingrown hair, avoid shaving, tweezing and waxing. If that's not an option, use these tips to make ingrown hair less likely:
Before shaving wash your skin with warm water and a mild facial cleanser.
Apply lubricating shaving cream or gel a few minutes before shaving to soften the hair. Or apply a warm, damp cloth.
Apply shaving cream and use a sharp, single-blade razor. This helps avoid a too-close shave.
Don't pull your skin while shaving.
Shave in the direction of hair growth.
Rinse the blade after each stroke.
Rinse your skin and apply a cool, wet cloth for about five minutes. Then use a soothing after-shave product or a glycolic acid lotion to help remove dead skin cells (exfoliate).
The following hair removal methods also may help prevent ingrown hair:
Electric razor or clippers. With the razor, avoid the closest shave setting. Hold the razor or clippers slightly away from your skin.
Chemical hair remover (depilatory). The chemicals in hair removal products may irritate your skin, so test on a small patch of hair first.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Insomnia
Home Remedies
No matter your age, insomnia typically can be treated. The key often lies in changes to your routine during the day and when you go to bed.
These tips may help:
Follow a sleep schedule. Keep your bedtime and wake time the same every day, including on weekends.
Stay active. Regular activity can lead to a good night's sleep. Schedule exercise at least a few hours before you go to bed. Do not take part in activities that use a lot of energy too close to bedtime.
Check your medicines. If you take medicines regularly, check with your doctor to see if they may be playing a part in your insomnia. Also, check the labels of products available without a prescription to see if they contain caffeine or other stimulants, such as pseudoephedrine.
Limit or stop naps. Naps can make it harder to fall asleep at night. If you cannot get by without one, try to limit a nap to no more than 30 minutes. Also, do not nap after 3 p.m. if your regular sleep time is at night.
Limit or do not use caffeine, alcohol and nicotine. Caffeine, alcohol and nicotine can make it harder to sleep. This effect can last for several hours.
Do not put up with pain. If a painful condition bothers you, talk to your doctor about which pain relievers may control pain while you sleep.
Do not eat large meals or drink a lot of fluids before bed. A light snack is fine and may help avoid heartburn. Drink less liquid before bedtime so that you will not have to urinate as often.
At bedtime:
Make your bedroom comfortable for sleep. Only use your bedroom for sex or sleep. Keep it dark, quiet and at a comfortable temperature. Hide all clocks in your bedroom, including your watch and cellphone. That way, you do not worry about what time it is.
Find ways to relax. Try to put your worries and planning aside when you get into bed. A warm bath or a massage before you go to bed can help prepare you for sleep. Create a relaxing bedtime ritual, such as taking a hot bath, reading, listening to soft music, doing breathing exercises or yoga, or praying.
Do not try too hard to sleep. The harder you try to sleep, the more awake you'll become. Read in another room until you become drowsy. Then go to bed to sleep. Do not go to bed too early, before you're sleepy.
Get out of bed when you're not sleeping. Sleep as much as you need to feel rested. Then get out of bed. Do not stay in bed if you're not sleeping.
More Information
Insomnia care at Mayo Clinic
Insomnia: How do I stay asleep?
Symptoms=Insomnia symptoms may include:
Having a hard time falling asleep at night.
Waking up during the night.
Waking up too early.
Feeling tired or sleepy during the day.
Feeling cranky, depressed or anxious.
Having a hard time paying attention, focusing on tasks or remembering.
Making more errors or having more accidents.
Having ongoing worries about sleep.
Risk Factors
Nearly everyone has an occasional sleepless night. But you're more likely to have insomnia if:
You're a woman. Changes in hormones during the menstrual cycle and in menopause may play a role. During menopause, night sweats and hot flashes often disrupt sleep. Insomnia also is common during pregnancy.
You're over 60. Because of changes in sleep patterns and health, it's more likely you'll have insomnia as you get older.
You have a mental health or physical health condition. Many issues that affect your mental or physical health can disrupt sleep.
You're under a lot of stress. Being stressed can cause short-term insomnia. Major or long-lasting stress can lead to long-term insomnia.
You do not have a regular schedule. For example, changing shifts at work or traveling can disrupt your sleep-wake cycle.
Prevention
Good sleep habits like these can help prevent insomnia:
Keep the time you go to bed and the time you wake up the same every day, including weekends.
Stay active. Regular activity can lead to a good night's sleep.
Limit naps or do not nap at all.
Limit or do not use caffeine, alcohol and nicotine.
Do not eat large meals or drink a lot of fluids before bed.
Make your bedroom comfortable for sleep and only use it for sex or sleep.
Create a relaxing bedtime ritual, such as taking a warm bath, reading or listening to soft music.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Interstitial lung disease
Home Remedies
Being actively involved in your own treatment and staying as healthy as possible are essential to living with interstitial lung disease. For that reason, it's important to:
Stop smoking. If you have lung disease, the best thing you can do for yourself is to stop smoking. Talk to your doctor about options for quitting, including smoking cessation programs, which use a variety of proven techniques to help people quit. And because secondhand smoke also can be harmful to your lungs, don't allow people to smoke around you.
Eat well. People with lung disease may lose weight both because it's uncomfortable to eat and because of the extra energy it takes to breathe. These people need a nutritionally rich diet that contains adequate calories. A dietitian can give you further guidelines for healthy eating.
Get vaccinated. Respiratory infections can worsen symptoms of intersitial lung disease. Make sure you receive the pneumonia vaccine and an annual flu shot.
Symptoms=The primary signs and symptoms of interstitial lung disease are:
Shortness of breath at rest or aggravated by exertion
Dry cough
When to see a doctor
By the time symptoms appear, irreversible lung damage has often already occurred. Nevertheless, it's important to see your doctor at the first sign of breathing problems. Many conditions other than interstitial lung disease can affect your lungs, and getting an early and accurate diagnosis is important for proper treatment.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Bronchioles and alveoli in the lungs
Enlarge image
Interstitial lung disease seems to occur when an injury to your lungs triggers an abnormal healing response. Ordinarily, your body generates just the right amount of tissue to repair damage. But in interstitial lung disease, the repair process goes awry and the tissue around the air sacs (alveoli) becomes scarred and thickened. This makes it more difficult for oxygen to pass into your bloodstream.
Interstitial lung disease can be triggered by many different things — including airborne toxins in the workplace, drugs and some types of medical treatments. In most cases, the causes are unknown.
Occupational and environmental factors
Long-term exposure to a number of toxins and pollutants can damage your lungs. These may include:
Silica dust
Asbestos fibers
Grain dust
Bird and animal droppings
Radiation treatments
Indoor hot tubs
Some people who receive radiation therapy for lung or breast cancer show signs of lung damage months or sometimes years after the initial treatment.
Medications
Many drugs can damage your lungs, especially:
Chemotherapy drugs. Drugs designed to kill cancer cells, such as methotrexate (Otrexup, Trexall, others) and cyclophosphamide, can also damage lung tissue.
Heart medications. Some drugs used to treat irregular heartbeats, such as amiodarone (Nexterone, Pacerone) or propranolol (Inderal, Innopran), may harm lung tissue.
Some antibiotics. Nitrofurantoin (Macrobid, Macrodantin, others) and ethambutol (Myambutol) can cause lung damage.
Anti-inflammatory drugs. Certain anti-inflammatory drugs, such as rituximab (Rituxan) or sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), can cause lung damage.
Medical conditions
Lung damage can also result from autoimmune diseases such as:
Rheumatoid arthritis
Scleroderma
Dermatomyositis and polymyositis
Mixed connective tissue disease
Sjogren's syndrome
Sarcoidosis
The list of substances and conditions that can lead to interstitial lung disease is long. Even so, in some cases, the causes are never found. Disorders without a known cause are grouped together under the label of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias, the most common and deadly of which is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Risk factors
Factors that may make you more susceptible to interstitial lung disease include:
Age. Interstitial lung disease is much more likely to affect adults, although infants and children sometimes develop the disorder.
Exposure to occupational and environmental toxins. If you work in mining, farming or construction or for any reason are exposed to pollutants known to damage your lungs, your risk of interstitial lung disease is increased.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. If you have uncontrolled acid reflux or indigestion, you may be at increased risk of interstitial lung disease.
Smoking. Some forms of interstitial lung disease are more likely to occur in people with a history of smoking, and active smoking may make the condition worse, especially if there is associated emphysema.
Radiation and chemotherapy. Having radiation treatments to your chest or using some chemotherapy drugs makes it more likely that you'll develop lung disease.
Complications
Interstitial lung disease can lead to a series of life-threatening complications, including:
High blood pressure in your lungs (pulmonary hypertension). Unlike systemic high blood pressure, this condition affects only the arteries in your lungs. It begins when scar tissue or low oxygen levels restrict the smallest blood vessels, limiting blood flow in your lungs. This in turn raises pressure within the pulmonary arteries. Pulmonary hypertension is a serious illness that becomes progressively worse.
Right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale). This serious condition occurs when your heart's lower right chamber (right ventricle) — which is less muscular than the left — has to pump harder than usual to move blood through obstructed pulmonary arteries. Eventually the right ventricle fails from the extra strain. This is often a consequence of pulmonary hypertension.
Respiratory failure. In the end stage of chronic interstitial lung disease, respiratory failure occurs when severely low blood oxygen levels along with rising pressures in the pulmonary arteries and the right ventricle cause heart failure.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Factors that may make you more susceptible to interstitial lung disease include:
Age. Interstitial lung disease is much more likely to affect adults, although infants and children sometimes develop the disorder.
Exposure to occupational and environmental toxins. If you work in mining, farming or construction or for any reason are exposed to pollutants known to damage your lungs, your risk of interstitial lung disease is increased.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. If you have uncontrolled acid reflux or indigestion, you may be at increased risk of interstitial lung disease.
Smoking. Some forms of interstitial lung disease are more likely to occur in people with a history of smoking, and active smoking may make the condition worse, especially if there is associated emphysema.
Radiation and chemotherapy. Having radiation treatments to your chest or using some chemotherapy drugs makes it more likely that you'll develop lung disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Irritable bowel syndrome
Home Remedies
Simple changes in your diet and lifestyle often provide relief from IBS. Your body typically needs time to respond to these changes. Try to:
Experiment with fiber. Fiber helps reduce constipation but also can worsen gas and cramping. Try slowly increasing the amount of fiber in your diet over a period of weeks with foods such as whole grains, fruits, vegetables and beans. A fiber supplement might cause less gas and bloating than fiber-rich foods.
Stay away from problem foods. Get rid of foods that trigger your symptoms.
Eat at regular times. Don't skip meals, and try to eat at about the same time each day to help regulate bowel function. If you have diarrhea, you may find that eating small, frequent meals makes you feel better. But if you're constipated, eating larger amounts of high-fiber foods may help move food through your intestines.
Exercise regularly. Exercise helps relieve depression and stress, stimulates contractions of your intestines, and can help you feel better about yourself. Ask a healthcare professional about an exercise program.
Symptoms=Symptoms of IBS vary but are usually present for a long time. The most common include:
Belly pain, cramping or bloating that is related to passing stool.
Changes in appearance of stool.
Changes in how often you are passing stool.
Other symptoms that are often related include sensation of incomplete evacuation and increased gas or mucus in the stool.
Video: How irritable bowel syndrome affects you
Show transcript
for video Video: How irritable bowel syndrome affects you
Risk Factors
Many people have occasional symptoms of IBS. But you're more likely to have the syndrome if you:
Are young. IBS occurs more often in people under age 50.
Are female. In the United States, IBS is more common among women. Estrogen therapy before or after menopause also is a risk factor for IBS.
Have a family history of IBS. Genes may play a role, as may shared factors in a family's environment or a combination of genes and environment.
Have anxiety, depression or other mental health issues. A history of sexual, physical or emotional abuse also might be a risk factor.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Itchy skin (pruritus)
Home Remedies
Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
For temporary relief of itching, try these self-care measures:
Avoid items or situations that cause you to itch. Try to identify what's causing your symptoms and avoid it. This might be wool clothing, an overly heated room, too many hot baths or exposure to a cleaning product.
Moisturize daily. Apply hypoallergenic and fragrance-free moisturizer (Cetaphil, others) to affected skin at least once a day. For dry skin, thicker creams and ointments work better than lotions.
Treat the scalp. For a dry, itchy scalp, try nonprescription medicated shampoos containing zinc pyrithione (Head & Shoulders, others), ketoconazole (Nizoral, others), selenium sulfide (Selsun Blue, others) or coal tar (Neutrogena T/Gel, others). You might need to try a few products before finding one that works for your hair and condition. Or you may find that switching between products helps. Don't use a medicated shampoo right after having a chemical relaxing process — rather, use a neutralizing shampoo.
Use creams, lotions or gels that soothe and cool the skin. Short-term use of nonprescription corticosteroid cream may offer short-term relief of itchy, inflamed skin. Or try calamine lotion or creams with menthol (Sarna, others), camphor, capsaicin, or a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine (adults only). Keeping these products in the refrigerator can enhance their soothing effect. Corticosteroid creams do not help with the itch that follows a shingles infection.
Avoid scratching. Cover the itchy area if you can't keep from scratching it. Trim your nails and, if it helps, wear gloves when you sleep.
Take a bath. Use lukewarm water and sprinkle in about a half cup (100 grams) of Epsom salts, baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno, others). Use a mild cleanser (Dove, Olay, Cetaphil), limiting its use to the underarms and groin. Don't scrub too hard and limit your bathing time. Then rinse thoroughly, pat dry and moisturize.
Reduce stress or anxiety. Stress or anxiety can worsen itching. Many people have found that counseling, behavior modification therapy, acupuncture, meditation and yoga can help reduce stress or anxiety.
Try nonprescription oral allergy medicine. Some nonprescription allergy medicines (antihistamines), such as diphenhydramine, can make you drowsy. This type of pill might be helpful before bedtime if your itchy skin disrupts your sleep. Antihistamines do not help with the itch that follows a shingles infection.
Use a humidifier. A humidifier may provide some relief if home heating causes the air in your home to be dry.
Stay well rested. Getting enough sleep might reduce the risk of itchy skin.
Symptoms=Itchy skin can affect small areas, such as the scalp, an arm or a leg. Or it can cover the whole body. Itchy skin can occur without any other noticeable changes on the skin. Or it may come with:
Inflamed skin
Scratch marks
Bumps, spots or blisters
Dry, cracked skin
Leathery or scaly patches
Sometimes itchiness lasts a long time and can be intense. As you rub or scratch the area, it gets itchier. And the more it itches, the more you scratch. Breaking this itch-scratch cycle can be difficult.
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop itchy skin. But you may be more likely to develop it if you:
Have a condition that can cause itching, such as dermatitis, kidney disease, anemia or thyroid disease.
Are an older adult, as skin can become drier with age.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Jet lag disorder
Home Remedies
Sunlight
Being exposed to sunlight helps reset your internal clock. It's the most powerful natural tool for regulating the sleep-wake cycle.
Morning light exposure can usually help you adjust to an earlier time zone after traveling east. Evening light helps you adapt to a later time zone after traveling west.
Plan ahead to determine the best times for light exposure based on your departure and destination points and overall sleep habits:
Before your trip. You can start light therapy up to three days before traveling to help you adjust to the new time zone once you arrive. If you're traveling east, try waking one hour earlier than your usual wake time and get at least one hour of light exposure. Do this daily until you leave for your trip, waking one hour earlier each day. Also adjust your bedtime to one hour earlier each night if possible. For westward travel, delay your wake and bedtimes.
At your destination. If you've traveled east and crossed 3 to 5 time zones, try avoiding bright daylight first thing in the morning. Try to get several hours of bright light exposure in mid- to late morning.
If you're crossing more time zones or traveling west, avoid bright light the morning of arrival but seek sunshine in the early afternoon. During the day, dark glasses can help block out light when you need to avoid exposure. At night, draw the window blinds or drapes or use a sleep mask. For each day on your trip, gradually shift your light exposure earlier.
Combining light exposure with exercise such as walking or jogging may help you adapt to the new time even faster.
Caffeine
Beverages with caffeine such as coffee, espresso and soft drinks may help offset daytime sleepiness. Choose drinks with caffeine wisely. Don't have caffeine after midday since it may make it even harder to fall asleep or sleep well.
Symptoms=Symptoms of jet lag can vary. You may experience only one symptom or you may have many. Jet lag symptoms may include:
Sleep problems such as not being able to fall asleep or waking up early.
Daytime fatigue.
Not being able to focus or function at your usual level.
Stomach problems such as constipation or diarrhea.
A general feeling of not being well.
Mood changes.
Symptoms are worse the farther you travel
Jet lag symptoms usually occur within a day or two after traveling across at least two time zones. Symptoms are likely to be worse or last longer the farther you travel. This is especially true if you fly east. It usually takes about a day to recover for each time zone crossed.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase the likelihood you'll experience jet lag include:
Number of time zones crossed. The more time zones you cross, the more likely you are to feel jet lag.
Flying east. You may find it harder to fly east, when you "lose" time, than to fly west, when you "gain" time.
Being a frequent flyer. Pilots, flight attendants and business travelers are most likely to experience jet lag.
Being an older adult. Older adults may need more time to recover from jet lag.
Prevention
A few basic steps may help prevent jet lag or reduce its effects:
Arrive early. If you have an important meeting or other event that requires you to be in top form, try to arrive a few days early to give your body a chance to adjust.
Get plenty of rest before your trip. Starting out sleep deprived makes jet lag worse.
Gradually adjust your schedule before you leave. If you're traveling east, try going to bed one hour earlier each night for a few days before your trip. If you're flying west, go to bed one hour later for several nights before you fly. If possible, eat meals closer to the time you'll be eating them during your trip.
Properly time bright light exposure. Light exposure is a prime influence on your body's circadian rhythms. After traveling west, expose yourself to light in the evening to help you adjust to a later than usual time zone. After traveling east, expose yourself to morning light to adapt to an earlier time zone.
The one exception is if you've traveled across more than eight time zones. Your body might mistake early-morning light for evening dusk. It also might mistake evening light for early-morning light.
So if you've traveled more than eight time zones to the east, wear sunglasses and avoid bright light in the morning. Then allow as much sunlight as possible in the late afternoon for the first few days in your new location.
If you've traveled west by more than eight time zones, avoid sunlight a few hours before dark for the first few days to adjust to the local time.
Stay on your new schedule. Set your watch or phone to the new time before you leave. Once you reach your destination, try not to sleep until the local nighttime, no matter how tired you are. Try to time your meals with local mealtimes too.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of water before, during and after your flight to counteract the effects of dry cabin air. Dehydration can make jet lag symptoms worse. Avoid alcohol and caffeine, as these can dehydrate you and affect your sleep.
Try to sleep on the plane if it's nighttime at your destination. Earplugs, headphones and eye masks can help block noise and light. If it's daytime where you're going, resist the urge to sleep.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Home Remedies
Caregivers can help children learn self-care techniques that help limit the effects of juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Techniques include:
Getting regular exercise. Exercise is important because it promotes both muscle strength and joint flexibility. Swimming is an excellent choice because it places minimal stress on joints.
Applying cold or heat. Stiffness affects many children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, particularly in the morning. Some children respond well to cold packs, particularly after activity. However, most children prefer warmth, such as a hot pack or a hot bath or shower, especially in the morning.
Eating well. Some children with arthritis have poor appetites. Others may gain excess weight due to medications or physical inactivity. A healthy diet can help maintain an appropriate body weight.
Adequate calcium in the diet is important because children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis are at risk of developing weak bones due to the disease, the use of corticosteroids, and decreased physical activity and weight bearing.
Symptoms=The most common signs and symptoms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis are:
Pain. While your child might not complain of joint pain, you may notice that he or she limps — especially first thing in the morning or after a nap.
Swelling. Joint swelling is common but is often first noticed in larger joints such as the knee.
Stiffness. You might notice that your child appears clumsier than usual, particularly in the morning or after naps.
Fever, swollen lymph nodes and rash. In some cases, high fever, swollen lymph nodes or a rash on the trunk may occur — which is usually worse in the evenings.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis can affect one joint or many. There are several different subtypes of juvenile idiopathic arthritis, but the main ones are systemic, oligoarticular and polyarticular. Which type your child has depends on symptoms, the number of joints affected, and if a fever and rashes are prominent features.
Like other forms of arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis is characterized by times when symptoms flare up and times when symptoms may be minimal.
Risk Factors
Some forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis are more common in girls.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Keloid scar
Home Remedies
Try these keloid self-care tips:
Care for your wound as directed. Wound care can be time-consuming, and compression dressings can be uncomfortable. Try to stick with the routine recommended by your doctor, as these steps are important to keloid prevention.
Apply a corticosteroid cream. This type of nonprescription cream can help ease itchiness.
Apply silicone gel. Applying nonprescription silicone gel can help ease itchiness.
Protect the area from re-injury. Avoid irritating the keloid with clothing or other types of friction or injury.
Protect your skin from the sun. Sun exposure might change the color of your keloid, making it more noticeable. That change might be permanent. Before going outside, protect your skin by covering the keloid or by liberally applying sunscreen.
Symptoms=A keloid scar may form within months to years of the inciting injury. Signs and symptoms might include:
Thick, irregular scarring, typically on the earlobes, shoulders, cheeks or middle chest
Shiny, hairless, lumpy, raised skin
Varied size, depending on the size of the original injury and when the keloid stops growing
Varied texture, from soft to firm and rubbery
Reddish, brown or purplish, depending on your skin color
Itchiness
Discomfort
Risk Factors
Risk factors for keloids include:
Having brown or Black skin. Keloids are most common in people with brown or Black skin. The reason for this predisposition is unknown.
Having a personal or family history of keloids. Keloids can run in families, indicating that the tendency might be inherited. If you've had one keloid, you're at risk of developing others.
Being under 30. You're more likely to develop a keloid if you're between the ages of 20 and 30.
Prevention
If you're prone to developing keloids, take these preventive self-care tips:
Practice good wound care. Keep a wound clean and moist. Gently wash the area with mild soap and water. Apply a thin layer of petrolatum jelly (Vaseline, Aquaphor) or other ointment. Reapply the ointment throughout the day as needed. Your doctor might recommend applying a pressure pad or a silicone gel pad to a wound while it's healing. Adults need to take these preventive steps for six months after skin injury, and children up to 18 months.
Applying pressure earrings to your earlobes after an ear piercing helps prevent keloids.
Protect your skin from injury. Try to avoid injuring your skin. Consider not getting body piercings, tattoos and elective surgeries. Even minor injuries — such as ingrown hairs, cuts and scratches — can incite a keloid to grow.
If you decide to undergo surgery, talk with your doctor about your tendency to develop keloids. Your doctor can use surgical techniques that reduce the risk of developing keloids at the surgical site. After surgery, ask your doctor about postoperative care and follow the instructions carefully.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Keratosis pilaris
Home Remedies
Self-help measures won't prevent keratosis pilaris or make it go away. But they may improve how the affected skin looks. When using a product new to you, test it on one area of affected skin first, such as an arm. If it seems to work and doesn't cause a reaction, use it for your keratosis pilaris.
Use warm water and limit bath time. Hot water and long showers or baths remove oils from the skin. Limit bath or shower time to about 10 minutes or less. Use warm, not hot, water.
Be gentle to the skin. Avoid harsh, drying soaps. Gently remove dead skin with a washcloth or loofah. Vigorous scrubbing or removal of hair follicle plugs may irritate the skin and worsen the condition. After washing or bathing, gently pat or blot the skin with a towel so that some moisture remains.
Try medicated creams. Apply a nonprescription cream that contains urea, lactic acid, alpha hydroxy acid or salicylic acid. These creams help loosen and remove dead skin cells. They also moisturize and soften dry skin. Put on this product before moisturizer.
Moisturize. While the skin is still moist from bathing, apply a moisturizer that contains lanolin, petroleum jelly or glycerin. These ingredients soothe dry skin and help trap moisture. Thicker moisturizers work best. Examples are Eucerin and Cetaphil. Reapply the product to the affected skin several times a day.
Use a humidifier. Low humidity dries out the skin. A portable home humidifier or one attached to your furnace will add moisture to the air inside your home.
Avoid friction from tight clothes. Protect affected skin from the friction caused by wearing tight clothes.
Symptoms=Keratosis pilaris can occur at any age, but it's more common in young children. Symptoms include:
Painless tiny bumps on the upper arms, thighs, cheeks or buttocks
Dry, rough skin in the areas with bumps
Worsening when seasonal changes cause low humidity and dry skin
Sandpaper-like bumps resembling goose flesh
Risk Factors
Keratosis pilaris is very common. It tends to run in families.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Kidney infection
Home Remedies
To help you feel better while you recover from a kidney infection, you might:
Apply heat. Place a heating pad on your belly, back or side to ease pain.
Use pain medicine. For fever or discomfort, take a pain reliever such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). If you have chronic kidney disease, it's best to avoid or limit use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Motrin IB, Advil, others).
Stay hydrated. Drinking fluids will help flush bacteria from your urinary tract. Avoid coffee and alcohol until your infection has cleared. They can worsen the feeling of needing to urinate.
Symptoms=Symptoms of a kidney infection might include:
Fever
Chills
A burning feeling or pain when urinating
Having to urinate often
A strong, lasting urge to urinate
Back, side or groin pain
Nausea and vomiting
Pus or blood in the urine
Urine that smells bad or is cloudy
Belly pain
Risk Factors
Factors that increase the risk of a kidney infection include:
Being female. The urethra is shorter in women than in men. That makes it easier for bacteria to travel from outside the body to the bladder. The urethra being close to the vagina and anus also makes it easier for bacteria to enter the bladder.
Once in the bladder, an infection can spread to the kidneys. Pregnant women are at even higher risk of a kidney infection.
Having a urinary tract blockage. Anything that slows the flow of urine or makes it harder to fully empty the bladder can raise the risk of a kidney infection. This includes a kidney stone, a narrowed urethra or an enlarged prostate gland.
Having a weakened immune system. Medical conditions such as diabetes and HIV can weaken the immune system. Certain medicines also can lower immunity. These include drugs taken after an organ transplant that help prevent rejection.
Having damage to nerves around the bladder. Nerve or spinal cord damage can block the feeling of a bladder infection. That can make it hard to know when an infection travels to a kidney.
Using a urinary catheter. Urinary catheters are tubes used to drain urine from the bladder. Catheters are sometimes used after a surgical procedure or diagnostic test. They're also used in people who are confined to a bed.
Having a condition that causes urine to flow the wrong way. In vesicoureteral reflux, small amounts of urine flow from the bladder back into the tubes that connect the bladder and kidneys. People with this condition are at higher risk of kidney infections when they're kids and when they become adults.
Prevention
Reduce your risk of kidney infection by taking steps to prevent urinary tract infections. Women in particular may lower the risk of urinary tract infections if they:
Drink fluids, especially water. Fluids can help remove bacteria from the body when you urinate.
Urinate as soon as you need to. Don't delay urinating when you feel the urge.
Empty the bladder after sexual intercourse. Urinating as soon as possible after sex helps clear bacteria from the urethra. This lowers the risk of infection.
Wipe carefully. Wipe from front to back after urinating and after a bowel movement. This helps prevent bacteria from spreading to the urethra.
Avoid using products in the genital area. Deodorant sprays in the genital area or douches can be irritating.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome
Home Remedies
Strategies to help manage KTS symptoms include:
Keep appointments. Regularly scheduled appointments can help your doctor identify and address problems early. Ask your doctor about what schedule of appointments is appropriate for you.
Use orthopedic shoes, if recommended. Orthopedic shoes or shoe inserts may improve your physical function.
Follow your doctor's recommendations on physical activity. Encouraging use of affected limbs as appropriate may help relieve lymphedema and swelling of the blood vessels.
Elevate affected limbs. When possible, raising your leg or other affected limb can help reduce lymphedema.
Notify your doctor of changes. Work with your doctor to manage your symptoms and prevent complications. Contact your doctor if you have symptoms of blood clots or an infection or if you experience increased pain or swelling.
Symptoms=People who have KTS may have the following features, which can range from mild to more extensive:
Port-wine stain. This pink to reddish-purple birthmark is caused by extra tiny blood vessels (capillaries) in the top layer of skin. The birthmark often covers part of one leg but can involve any portion of the skin. It may get darker or lighter with age.
Vein malformations. These include swollen, twisted veins (varicose veins), usually on the surface of the legs. Deeper malformed veins in the arms, legs, abdomen and pelvis also can occur. There may be spongy tissue filled with small veins in or under the skin. Malformed veins may become more prominent with age.
Overgrowth of bones and soft tissue. This begins in infancy and may be limited to one leg, but it can occur in an arm or, rarely, in the trunk or face. This overgrowth of bone and tissue creates a larger and longer extremity. Rarely, there may be fusion of fingers or toes or extra fingers or toes.
Lymphatic system malformations. The lymphatic system — part of the immune system that protects against infection and disease and transports lymphatic fluid — can be malformed. Extra lymphatic vessels can be present that don't work properly and can lead to fluid leakage into the tissues and swelling.
Other conditions. KTS can also include cataracts, glaucoma, hip dislocation at birth, purple-red skin coloring when cold and blood-clotting problems.
Risk Factors
Family history doesn't seem to be a risk factor, so it's unlikely that parents of one child with KTS will have another child with the disorder, even if one of the parents has KTS.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Knee bursitis
Home Remedies
To ease pain and discomfort of knee bursitis:
Rest your knee. Take a break from the activity that caused your symptoms. Try not to kneel and make movements that make your pain worse.
Take pain relievers. Some medicines that are sold without a prescription can help ease pain. They're meant for short-term use. They include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Apply ice. Apply an ice pack to your knee for 20 minutes at a time. Do this a few times a day until the pain and warmth in the knee go away.
Try gentle compression. Use of a compressive wrap or knee sleeve can help ease swelling.
Raise your knee. Prop your affected leg on pillows. This helps curb swelling in your knee.
Lose extra weight if needed. This can take pressure off of your affected knee.
Symptoms=Knee bursitis symptoms vary. They depend on which bursa is affected and what's causing the inflammation.
The affected portion of your knee might feel warm, tender and swollen. You also might feel pain when you move or when you're at rest.
A direct blow to the knee can cause symptoms to come on fast. But knee bursitis often stems from friction and irritation of the bursae. This can occur with jobs that require a lot of kneeling on hard surfaces. So, the symptoms can start slowly and become worse over time.
Risk Factors
Factors that can raise the risk of getting knee bursitis include:
Prolonged kneeling. The risk of bursitis is higher for people who work on their knees for long amounts of time. This includes carpet layers, plumbers and gardeners.
Playing certain sports. Sports that can lead to direct blows or frequent falls on the knee raise your risk of knee bursitis. So do sports that create friction between the knee and a mat. These sports include wrestling, football, basketball and volleyball. Runners also can get pain and inflammation in the bursa that's located on the inner side of the knee below the joint. This is called pes anserine bursitis.
Obesity and osteoarthritis. Pes anserine bursitis often occurs in obese women with osteoarthritis.
Prevention
The following tips can help you prevent bursitis or keep it from coming back:
Wear kneepads. This can help if you often work on your knees or play sports that put your knees at risk. Use padding to cushion and protect your knees.
Take breaks. If you're on your knees for a while, take regular breaks to stretch your legs and rest your knees.
Reach and stay at a healthy weight. This can help take pressure off the knee joints.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
The following tips can help you prevent bursitis or keep it from coming back:
Wear kneepads. This can help if you often work on your knees or play sports that put your knees at risk. Use padding to cushion and protect your knees.
Take breaks. If you're on your knees for a while, take regular breaks to stretch your legs and rest your knees.
Reach and stay at a healthy weight. This can help take pressure off the knee joints.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Knee pain
Home Remedies
Over-the-counter medications — such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) — may help ease knee pain.
Some people find relief by rubbing the affected knee with creams containing a numbing agent, such as lidocaine, or capsaicin, the substance that makes chili peppers hot.
Self-care measures for an injured knee include:
Rest. Take a break from your normal activities to reduce repetitive strain on your knee, give the injury time to heal and help prevent further damage. A day or two of rest may be all you need for a minor injury. More severe damage is likely to need a longer recovery time.
Ice. Ice reduces both pain and inflammation. A bag of frozen peas works well because it covers your whole knee. You also can use an ice pack wrapped in a thin towel to protect your skin. Although ice therapy is generally safe and effective, don't use ice for longer than 20 minutes at a time because of the risk of damage to your nerves and skin.
Heat. You may experience temporary pain relief by applying a heat pack or hot-water bottle to the painful area on your knee.
Compression. This helps prevent fluid buildup in damaged tissues and maintains knee alignment and stability. Look for a compression bandage that's lightweight, breathable and self-adhesive. It should be tight enough to support your knee without interfering with circulation.
Elevation. To help reduce swelling, try propping your injured leg on pillows or sitting in a recliner.
Symptoms=The location and severity of knee pain may vary, depending on the cause of the problem. Signs and symptoms that sometimes accompany knee pain include:
Swelling and stiffness
Redness and warmth to the touch
Weakness or instability
Popping or crunching noises
Inability to fully straighten the knee
Risk Factors
A number of factors can increase your risk of having knee problems, including:
Excess weight. Being overweight or obese increases stress on your knee joints, even during ordinary activities such as walking or going up and down stairs. It also puts you at increased risk of osteoarthritis by accelerating the breakdown of joint cartilage.
Lack of muscle flexibility or strength. A lack of strength and flexibility can increase the risk of knee injuries. Strong muscles help stabilize and protect your joints, and muscle flexibility can help you achieve full range of motion.
Certain sports or occupations. Some sports put greater stress on your knees than do others. Alpine skiing with its rigid ski boots and potential for falls, basketball's jumps and pivots, and the repeated pounding your knees take when you run or jog all increase your risk of knee injury. Jobs that require repetitive stress on the knees such as construction or farming also can increase your risk.
Previous injury. Having a previous knee injury makes it more likely that you'll injure your knee again.
Prevention
Although it's not always possible to prevent knee pain, the following suggestions may help ward off injuries and joint deterioration:
Keep extra pounds off. Maintain a healthy weight; it's one of the best things you can do for your knees. Every extra pound puts additional strain on your joints, increasing the risk of injuries and osteoarthritis.
Be in shape to play your sport. To prepare your muscles for the demands of sports participation, take time for conditioning.
Practice perfectly. Make sure the technique and movement patterns you use in your sports or activity are the best they can be. Lessons from a professional can be very helpful.
Get strong, stay flexible. Weak muscles are a leading cause of knee injuries. You'll benefit from building up your quadriceps and hamstrings, the muscles on the front and back of your thighs that help support your knees. Balance and stability training helps the muscles around your knees work together more effectively.
And because tight muscles also can contribute to injury, stretching is important. Try to include flexibility exercises in your workouts.
Be smart about exercise. If you have osteoarthritis, chronic knee pain or recurring injuries, you may need to change the way you exercise. Consider switching to swimming, water aerobics or other low-impact activities — at least for a few days a week. Sometimes simply limiting high-impact activities will provide relief.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Male infertility
Home Remedies
There are a few steps you can take at home to increase your chances of achieving pregnancy:
Increase frequency of sex. Having sexual intercourse every day or every other day beginning at least five days before ovulation increases your chances of getting your partner pregnant.
Have sex when fertilization is possible. A woman is likely to become pregnant during ovulation — which occurs in the middle of the menstrual cycle, between periods. This will ensure that sperm, which can live several days, are present when conception is possible.
Avoid the use of lubricants. Products such as Astroglide or K-Y jelly, lotions, and saliva might impair sperm movement and function. Ask your doctor about sperm-safe lubricants.
Live a healthy lifestyle. Eat a variety of healthy foods, maintain a healthy weight, get enough sleep, and exercise regularly.
Avoid things that damage your overall health. Stop or reduce your use of alcohol, quit smoking, and don't use illicit drugs.
Symptoms=The main sign of male infertility is the inability to conceive a child. There may be no other obvious signs or symptoms.
In some cases, however, an underlying problem such as an inherited disorder, hormonal imbalance, dilated veins around the testicle or a condition that blocks the passage of sperm causes signs and symptoms. Signs and symptoms you may notice include:
Problems with sexual function — for example, difficulty with ejaculation or small volumes of fluid ejaculated, reduced sexual desire, or difficulty maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction)
Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area
Recurrent respiratory infections
Inability to smell
Abnormal breast growth (gynecomastia)
Decreased facial or body hair or other signs of a chromosomal or hormonal abnormality
A lower than normal sperm count (fewer than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen or a total sperm count of less than 39 million per ejaculate)
Risk Factors
Risk factors linked to male infertility include:
Smoking tobacco
Using alcohol
Using certain illicit drugs
Being overweight
Having certain past or present infections
Being exposed to toxins
Overheating the testicles
Having experienced trauma to the testicles
Having a prior vasectomy or major abdominal or pelvic surgery
Having a history of undescended testicles
Being born with a fertility disorder or having a blood relative with a fertility disorder
Having certain medical conditions, including tumors and chronic illnesses, such as sickle cell disease
Taking certain medications or undergoing medical treatments, such as surgery or radiation used for treating cancer
Prevention
Male infertility isn't always preventable. However, you can try to avoid some known causes of male infertility. For example:
Don't smoke.
Limit or abstain from alcohol.
Steer clear of illicit drugs.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Don't get a vasectomy.
Avoid things that lead to prolonged heat for the testicles.
Reduce stress.
Avoid exposure to pesticides, heavy metals and other toxins.
Male infertility care at Mayo Clinic
Our caring team of Mayo Clinic experts can help you with your health concerns. Visit Mayo Clinic Men's Health to get started.
Get the process started
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Marfan syndrome
Home Remedies
You may need to avoid competitive sports and certain recreational activities if you're at increased risk of aortic dissection or rupture. Increases in blood pressure, common in activities such as weightlifting, place extra strain on the aorta. Less intense activities — such as brisk walking, bowling, doubles tennis or golf — are generally safer.
Symptoms=Finger length in Marfan syndrome
Enlarge image
Longer arms in Marfan syndrome
Enlarge image
The signs and symptoms of Marfan syndrome can vary greatly, even among members of the same family, because the disorder can affect so many different areas of the body. Some people experience only mild effects, but others develop life-threatening complications.
Marfan syndrome features may include:
Tall and slender build
Disproportionately long arms, legs and fingers
A breastbone that protrudes outward or dips inward
A high, arched palate and crowded teeth
Heart murmurs
Extreme nearsightedness
An abnormally curved spine
Flat feet
Risk Factors
Marfan syndrome affects men and women equally and occurs among all races and ethnic groups. Because it's a genetic condition, the greatest risk factor for Marfan syndrome is having a parent with the disorder.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mastitis
Home Remedies
To help yourself feel better:
Don't let your breasts fill up with too much milk between breastfeeding sessions.
Put a cool cloth or ice pack on your breast after breastfeeding.
Wear a bra that supports your breasts.
Rest as much as you can.
Symptoms=Symptoms of mastitis can appear suddenly. They may be in one or both breasts. Symptoms may include:
Breast tenderness or warmth.
Breast swelling.
Thickening of breast tissue, or a breast lump.
Pain or a burning feeling all the time or while breastfeeding.
Skin redness, often in a wedge-shaped pattern. The redness may be harder to see on Black or brown skin.
Feeling ill.
Fever of 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38.3 degrees Celsius) or greater.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for mastitis include:
Having a history of mastitis.
Having sore or cracked nipples.
Putting pressure on a breast that restricts milk flow. Wearing a tight bra or using a tight seat belt can cause pressure.
Not nursing correctly.
Being overly tired or stressed.
Eating poorly.
Smoking.
Prevention
Before you start breastfeeding, think about meeting with a breastfeeding specialist, called a lactation consultant. This can help you avoid complications such as mastitis.
Lower your chances of getting mastitis by following these tips:
Feed your baby on demand or let out milk with your hand, called expressing, often.
Fully drain the milk from your breasts while breastfeeding.
Let your baby empty one breast all the way before switching to the other breast during feeding.
Change the position you use to breastfeed from one feeding to the next.
Make sure your baby latches on well during feedings.
If you smoke, talk with your healthcare professional about how to quit.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
MCAD deficiency
Home Remedies
Parent and family understanding of the condition is critical to ongoing care and prevention of low blood sugar episodes and other complications. Prevention tips include:
Avoid skipping meals.
Eat complex carbohydrates before extra activity or exercise.
Eat complex carbohydrates before going to bed.
Increase calories with extra complex carbohydrates during illness or stress.
Always carry complex carbohydrate snacks.
Always carry a source of simple carbohydrates to treat low blood sugar.
Know the warning signs of low blood sugar and other symptoms of a metabolic crisis.
If you or your child have MCAD deficiency, wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace and carry a medical card. This lets health care providers know of your condition, even in an emergency. Ask your health care provider about information for health professionals that you can carry with you in case emergency care is needed.
Symptoms=MCAD deficiency is usually first identified in babies and young children. In rare cases, the disorder is not diagnosed until adulthood.
Symptoms can vary among people with MCAD deficiency. They may include:
Vomiting.
Low or no energy.
Weak feeling.
Low blood sugar.
A sudden severe episode, called a metabolic crisis, can be due to:
Going too long without eating.
Missing meals.
Common infections.
High fever.
Ongoing stomach and digestive problems that may cause vomiting and diarrhea.
Intense exercise.
Risk Factors
A child is at risk of MCAD deficiency if both parents are carriers of a gene known to cause it. The child then inherits two copies of the gene — one from each parent. Children who inherit only one copy of the affected gene from one parent typically won't develop MCAD deficiency but will be carriers of the gene.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS)
Home Remedies
Pain and stress often occur in a cycle. Pain can make you feel stressed, and stress can make pain worse. MALS pain may make it difficult to eat, exercise, sleep and do everyday tasks.
Relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing and meditation, may ease pain and boost your mental health.
Symptoms=Often, compression of the celiac artery doesn't cause any symptoms.
However, those with median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) can have long-term (chronic) stomach pain. The symptoms may be due to a lack of blood flow through the celiac artery or compression on nerves in the area.
Symptoms of MALS include:
Pain in the upper middle stomach area, which may go away when leaning forward
Stomach pain after eating, exercising or changing body position
Bloating
Diarrhea
Fear of eating food due to pain, leading to significant weight loss — usually greater than 20 pounds (9.1 kilograms)
Nausea and vomiting
Risk Factors
Because the cause of MALS is poorly understood, the risk factors for the syndrome are unclear. MALS has been seen in children, even twins, which might mean genetics plays a role.
Some people have developed MALS after pancreatic surgery and blunt injury to the upper stomach area.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Meniere's disease
Home Remedies
You may be able to improve some symptoms of Meniere's disease with self-care tips. Think about trying these tips during a vertigo attack:
Sit or lie down when you feel dizzy. Avoid things that can make your symptoms worse, such as sudden movement, bright lights, watching television or reading. Try to focus on an object that isn't moving.
Rest during and after attacks. Don't rush to return to your normal activities. If you feel tired, rest in bed for a short time. Then, slowly get up and move around when you can. This helps the brain readjust your balance signals.
Prepare for an attack ahead of time. Talk to your healthcare provider about ways you can prepare for a vertigo attack. Talk about medicines you can take for dizziness. And ask about when to go to the hospital or how to prevent injuries, such as a fall.
Lifestyle changes
To avoid causing a vertigo attack, try the following.
Limit salt. Eating foods and having drinks high in salt can boost the amount of water in your body. For overall health, aim for less than 2,300 milligrams of sodium each day. Experts also suggest spreading your salt intake evenly throughout the day.
Limit caffeine, alcohol and tobacco. These substances can cause vertigo attacks in some people. Try keeping a journal to track your symptoms and find possible causes.
Symptoms=Symptoms of Meniere's disease include:
Regular dizzy spells. You have a spinning feeling that starts and stops suddenly. Vertigo may start without warning. It usually lasts 20 minutes to 12 hours, but not more than 24 hours. Serious vertigo can cause nausea.
Hearing loss. Hearing loss in Meniere's disease may come and go, especially early on. Over time, hearing loss can be long-lasting and not get better.
Ringing in the ear. Ringing in the ear is called tinnitus. Tinnitus is the term for when you have a ringing, buzzing, roaring, whistling or hissing sound in your ear.
Feeling of fullness in the ear. People with Meniere's disease often feel pressure in the ear. This is called aural fullness.
After a vertigo attack, symptoms get better and might go away for a while. Over time, how many vertigo attacks you have may lessen.
Risk Factors
Meniere's disease is most common in people ages 40 to 60. Females may have a slightly higher risk than men.
You may have a higher chance of getting Meniere's disease if someone in your family has had the condition.
You may have a higher risk of Meniere's disease if you have an autoimmune disorder.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Menopause
Home Remedies
Many of the symptoms menopause causes go away on their own in time. In the meantime, the following might help:
Cool hot flashes. Dress in layers, wear sleeveless tops and wear fabrics that breathe, such as cotton. Lower room temperatures and use hand or room fans. Put cold packs under your pillow and turn the pillow often so your head is on the cool side.
It might also help to avoid triggers such as caffeine, alcohol and spicy foods.
Ease vaginal pain. Try a water-based vaginal lubricant (Astroglide, Sliquid, others) or a silicone-based lubricant or moisturizer (Replens, K-Y Liquibeads, others). You can get these without a prescription.
Stay sexually active by yourself or with a partner. This also can ease vaginal discomfort by increasing blood flow to the vagina.
Get enough sleep. Skip caffeine and alcohol, which can make it harder to sleep. Exercise during the day, but not right before bedtime. If hot flashes disturb your sleep, find a way to help manage them so you can get better rest.
Find ways to relax. There's little proof that deep breathing, guided imagery, massage and muscle relaxation can ease menopausal symptoms. But finding ways to relax is good for overall health and may help you cope with menopausal symptoms. You can learn how through books and websites.
Strengthen your pelvic floor. Pelvic floor muscle exercises, called Kegel exercises, can improve some forms of urinary incontinence.
Eat a balanced diet. Include a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit saturated fats, oils and sugars. Ask your healthcare professional if you need calcium or vitamin D supplements.
Manage weight. Studies show that being obese is linked to having more and worse hot flashes. Losing weight and keeping it off may help ease them. Talk with your healthcare professional if you need help losing weight.
Don't smoke. Smoking increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, cancer and a range of other health problems. It also may increase hot flashes and bring on earlier menopause.
Exercise regularly. Get regular physical activity or exercise on most days to help protect against heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis and other conditions associated with aging.
Symptoms=Most often, menopause happens over time. The months or years leading up to menopause are called perimenopause or the menopausal transition.
During the transition, the amount of hormones your ovaries make varies. Perimenopause can last 2 to 8 years. The average is about four years.
The hormone changes can cause symptoms such as:
Irregular periods.
Vaginal dryness.
Hot flashes.
Night sweats.
Sleep problems.
Mood changes.
Trouble finding words and remembering, often called brain fog.
Different people have different menopause symptoms. Most often, periods are not regular before they end.
Skipped periods during perimenopause are common and expected. Often, menstrual periods skip a month and return. Or they skip a few months and then start monthly cycles again for a few months.
Period cycles tend to get shorter in early perimenopause, so periods are closer together. As menopause gets closer, periods get farther apart for months before they end.
You can still get pregnant during this time. If you've skipped a period but aren't sure it's due to menopause, think about taking a pregnancy test.
Risk Factors
People assigned female at birth go through menopause. The main risk factor is reaching the age of menopause.
Other risk factors include:
Surgery to remove the ovaries.
Certain cancer treatments.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mental illness
Home Remedies
In most cases, a mental illness won't get better if you try to treat it on your own without professional care. But you can do some things for yourself that will build on your treatment plan:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions. Even if you're feeling better, don't skip your medications. If you stop, symptoms may come back. And you could have withdrawal-like symptoms if you stop a medication too suddenly. If you have bothersome drug side effects or other problems with treatment, talk to your doctor before making changes.
Avoid alcohol and drug use. Using alcohol or recreational drugs can make it difficult to treat a mental illness. If you're addicted, quitting can be a real challenge. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Stay active. Exercise can help you manage symptoms of depression, stress and anxiety. Physical activity can also counteract the effects of some psychiatric medications that may cause weight gain. Consider walking, swimming, gardening or any form of physical activity that you enjoy. Even light physical activity can make a difference.
Make healthy choices. Maintaining a regular schedule that includes sufficient sleep, healthy eating and regular physical activity are important to your mental health.
Don't make important decisions when your symptoms are severe. Avoid decision-making when you're in the depth of mental illness symptoms, since you may not be thinking clearly.
Determine priorities. You may reduce the impact of your mental illness by managing time and energy. Cut back on obligations when necessary and set reasonable goals. Give yourself permission to do less when symptoms are worse. You may find it helpful to make a list of daily tasks or use a planner to structure your time and stay organized.
Learn to adopt a positive attitude. Focusing on the positive things in your life can make your life better and may even improve your health. Try to accept changes when they occur, and keep problems in perspective. Stress management techniques, including relaxation methods, may help.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of mental illness can vary, depending on the disorder, circumstances and other factors. Mental illness symptoms can affect emotions, thoughts and behaviors.
Examples of signs and symptoms include:
Feeling sad or down
Confused thinking or reduced ability to concentrate
Excessive fears or worries, or extreme feelings of guilt
Extreme mood changes of highs and lows
Withdrawal from friends and activities
Significant tiredness, low energy or problems sleeping
Detachment from reality (delusions), paranoia or hallucinations
Inability to cope with daily problems or stress
Trouble understanding and relating to situations and to people
Problems with alcohol or drug use
Major changes in eating habits
Sex drive changes
Excessive anger, hostility or violence
Suicidal thinking
Sometimes symptoms of a mental health disorder appear as physical problems, such as stomach pain, back pain, headaches, or other unexplained aches and pains.
Risk Factors
Certain factors may increase your risk of developing a mental illness, including:
A history of mental illness in a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling
Stressful life situations, such as financial problems, a loved one's death or a divorce
An ongoing (chronic) medical condition, such as diabetes
Brain damage as a result of a serious injury (traumatic brain injury), such as a violent blow to the head
Traumatic experiences, such as military combat or assault
Use of alcohol or recreational drugs
A childhood history of abuse or neglect
Few friends or few healthy relationships
A previous mental illness
Mental illness is common. About 1 in 5 adults has a mental illness in any given year. Mental illness can begin at any age, from childhood through later adult years, but most cases begin earlier in life.
The effects of mental illness can be temporary or long lasting. You also can have more than one mental health disorder at the same time. For example, you may have depression and a substance use disorder.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent mental illness. However, if you have a mental illness, taking steps to control stress, to increase your resilience and to boost low self-esteem may help keep your symptoms under control. Follow these steps:
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Consider involving family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Get routine medical care. Don't neglect checkups or skip visits to your primary care provider, especially if you aren't feeling well. You may have a new health problem that needs to be treated, or you may be experiencing side effects of medication.
Get help when you need it. Mental health conditions can be harder to treat if you wait until symptoms get bad. Long-term maintenance treatment also may help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Take good care of yourself. Sufficient sleep, healthy eating and regular physical activity are important. Try to maintain a regular schedule. Talk to your primary care provider if you have trouble sleeping or if you have questions about diet and physical activity.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mesenteric lymphadenitis
Home Remedies
For symptoms of mesenteric lymphadenitis, have your child:
Get plenty of rest. Enough rest can help your child recover.
Drink fluids. Liquids help prevent loss of body fluids, called dehydration, from fever, vomiting and diarrhea.
Apply moist heat. A warm, moist washcloth applied to the stomach area can help ease discomfort.
Eat a liquid diet in small amounts. For example, eat broth or chicken noodle soup.
Symptoms=Possible symptoms of mesenteric lymphadenitis include:
Pain in the stomach area, often on the lower right side, but the pain can be more spread out.
General tenderness of the stomach area.
Fever.
Enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes.
Depending on what's causing the condition, symptoms also might include:
Diarrhea.
Nausea and vomiting.
Risk Factors
Any infection that causes inflammation and swelling in the lymph nodes in the tissue that attaches the bowel to the abdominal wall increases the risk of mesenteric lymphadenitis.
Conditions that raise the risk of mesenteric lymphadenitis include:
Viral or bacterial gastroenteritis.
Inflammatory bowel disease.
Lymphoma.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Microscopic colitis
Home Remedies
Changes to your diet may help relieve the diarrhea of microscopic colitis. Try to:
Drink plenty of fluids. Water is best, but fluids with added sodium and potassium, called electrolytes, may help as well. Try drinking broth or watered-down fruit juice. Don't drink beverages that are high in sugar or sorbitol or contain alcohol or caffeine, such as coffee, tea and colas. These can make symptoms worse.
Choose soft, easy-to-digest foods. These include applesauce, bananas, melons and rice. Don't eat high-fiber foods such as beans and nuts. Eat only well-cooked vegetables. If you think your symptoms are getting better, slowly add high-fiber foods back to your diet. Talk to your healthcare professional about how long to continue this type of diet.
Eat several small meals rather than a few large meals. Spacing meals throughout the day may ease diarrhea.
Avoid irritating foods. Stay away from spicy, fatty or fried foods and any other foods that make your symptoms worse.
Symptoms=Symptoms of microscopic colitis include:
Watery diarrhea.
Belly pain, cramps or bloating.
Weight loss.
Nausea.
Not being able to control bowel movements, called fecal incontinence.
The body not having enough water, called dehydration.
The symptoms of microscopic colitis can come and go. At times, symptoms improve on their own.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for microscopic colitis include:
Age. Microscopic colitis is most common in people older than age 50.
Sex. Women are more likely to have microscopic colitis than are men. Some studies suggest a link between post-menopausal hormone therapy and microscopic colitis.
Autoimmune disease. People with microscopic colitis sometimes also have an autoimmune disorder, such as celiac disease, thyroid disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes or psoriasis.
Genetic link. Research suggests that there may be a link between microscopic colitis and a family history of irritable bowel syndrome.
Smoking. Recent research studies have shown a link between tobacco smoking and microscopic colitis, mostly in people ages 16 to 44.
Some research studies show a link between using certain medicines that may increase the risk of microscopic colitis. But not all studies agree.
Medicines that may be linked to the condition include:
Pain relievers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Proton pump inhibitors including lansoprazole (Prevacid), esomeprazole (Nexium), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (Aciphex), omeprazole (Prilosec) and dexlansoprazole (Dexilant).
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as sertraline (Zoloft).
Acarbose.
Flutamide.
Ranitidine.
Carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol, others).
Clozapine (Clozaril, Versacloz).
Entacapone (Comtan).
Paroxetine (Paxil).
Simvastatin (Flolipid, Zocor).
Topiramate (Topamax, Qsymia, others).
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Migraine
Home Remedies
When symptoms of migraine start, try heading to a quiet, darkened room. Close your eyes and rest or take a nap. Place a cool cloth or ice pack wrapped in a towel or cloth on your forehead and drink lots of water.
These practices might also soothe migraine pain:
Try relaxation techniques. Biofeedback and other forms of relaxation training teach you ways to deal with stressful situations, which might help reduce the number of migraines you have.
Develop a sleeping and eating routine. Don't sleep too much or too little. Set and follow a consistent sleep and wake schedule daily. Try to eat meals at the same time every day.
Drink plenty of fluids. Staying hydrated, particularly with water, might help.
Keep a headache diary. Recording your symptoms in a headache diary will help you learn more about what triggers your migraines and what treatment is most effective. It will also help your health care provider diagnose your condition and track your progress in between visits.
Exercise regularly. Regular aerobic exercise reduces tension and can help prevent a migraine. If your care provider agrees, choose aerobic activity you enjoy, such as walking, swimming and cycling. Warm up slowly, however, because sudden, intense exercise can cause headaches.
Regular exercise can also help you lose weight or maintain a healthy body weight, and obesity is thought to be a factor in migraines.
More Information
Migraine care at Mayo Clinic
Alleviating migraine pain
Symptoms=Migraines, which affect children and teenagers as well as adults, can progress through four stages: prodrome, aura, attack and post-drome. Not everyone who has migraines goes through all stages.
Prodrome
One or two days before a migraine, you might notice subtle changes that warn of an upcoming migraine, including:
Constipation.
Mood changes, from depression to euphoria.
Food cravings.
Neck stiffness.
Increased urination.
Fluid retention.
Frequent yawning.
Aura
For some people, an aura might occur before or during migraines. Auras are reversible symptoms of the nervous system. They're usually visual but can also include other disturbances. Each symptom usually begins gradually, builds up over several minutes and can last up to 60 minutes.
Examples of migraine auras include:
Visual phenomena, such as seeing various shapes, bright spots or flashes of light.
Vision loss.
Pins and needles sensations in an arm or leg.
Weakness or numbness in the face or one side of the body.
Difficulty speaking.
Attack
A migraine usually lasts from 4 to 72 hours if untreated. How often migraines occur varies from person to person. Migraines might occur rarely or strike several times a month.
During a migraine, you might have:
Pain usually on one side of your head, but often on both sides.
Pain that throbs or pulses.
Sensitivity to light, sound, and sometimes smell and touch.
Nausea and vomiting.
Post-drome
After a migraine attack, you might feel drained, confused and washed out for up to a day. Some people report feeling elated. Sudden head movement might bring on the pain again briefly.
Risk Factors
Several factors make you more prone to having migraines, including:
Family history. If you have a family member with migraines, then you have a good chance of developing them too.
Age. Migraines can begin at any age, though the first often occurs during adolescence. Migraines tend to peak during your 30s, and gradually become less severe and less frequent in the following decades.
Sex. Women are three times more likely than men to have migraines.
Hormonal changes. For women who have migraines, headaches might begin just before or shortly after onset of menstruation. They might also change during pregnancy or menopause. Migraines generally improve after menopause.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)
Home Remedies
Study results have been mixed about whether diet, exercise or other healthy lifestyle choices can prevent or reverse mild cognitive impairment. Regardless, these healthy choices promote good overall health and may play a role in good brain health.
Regular physical exercise has known benefits for heart health. It also may help prevent or slow a decline in thinking skills.
A diet low in fat and rich in fruits and vegetables is another heart-healthy choice that also may help protect brain health.
Omega-3 fatty acids are good for the heart. Most research on omega-3s that shows a possible benefit for brain health looks at how much fish people eat.
Keeping your brain active may prevent a decline in thinking skills. Studies have shown that playing games, playing an instrument, reading books and other activities may help preserve brain function.
Being social may make life more satisfying, help preserve mental abilities and slow mental decline.
Memory training and other cognitive training may help improve your symptoms.
More Information
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) care at Mayo Clinic
HABIT program orientation
Symptoms=Symptoms of mild cognitive impairment, also known as MCI, include trouble with memory, language and judgment. The symptoms are more serious than the memory issues that are expected as people get older. But the symptoms don't affect daily life at work or at home.
The brain, like the rest of the body, changes with age. Many people notice they become more forgetful as they age. It may take longer to think of a word or to recall a person's name. But if concerns with memory go beyond what's expected, the symptoms may be due to mild cognitive impairment.
People with MCI may have symptoms that include:
Forgetting things more often.
Missing appointments or social events.
Losing their train of thought. Or not following the plot of a book or movie.
Trouble following a conversation.
Trouble finding the right word or with language.
Finding it hard to make decisions, finish a task or follow instructions.
Trouble finding their way around places they know well.
Poor judgment.
Changes that are noticed by family and friends.
People with MCI also may experience:
Depression.
Anxiety.
A short temper and aggression.
A lack of interest.
Risk Factors
The strongest risk factors for mild cognitive impairment are:
Older age.
Having a form of a gene known as APOE e4. This gene also is linked to Alzheimer's disease. But having the gene doesn't guarantee a decline in thinking and memory.
Other medical conditions and lifestyle factors have been linked to a higher risk of changes in thinking, including:
Diabetes.
Smoking.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol, especially high levels of low-density lipoprotein, known as LDL.
Obesity.
Depression.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Hearing loss and vision loss that are not treated.
Traumatic brain injury.
Lack of physical exercise.
Low education level.
Lack of mentally or socially stimulating activities.
Exposure to air pollution.
Prevention
Mild cognitive impairment can't be prevented. But research has found that some lifestyle factors may lower the risk of getting it. These steps may offer some protection:
Don't drink large amounts of alcohol.
Limit exposure to air pollution.
Reduce your risk of a head injury, such as by wearing a helmet when riding a motorcycle or bicycle.
Don't smoke.
Manage health conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity and depression.
Watch your levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and get treatment if the levels are high.
Practice good sleep habits and manage any sleep conditions.
Eat a healthy diet full of nutrients. Include fruits and vegetables and foods low in saturated fats.
Stay social with friends and family.
Get moderate to vigorous exercise most days of the week.
Wear a hearing aid if you have hearing loss.
Get regular eye exams and treat any vision changes.
Stimulate your mind with puzzles, games and memory training.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mitral valve disease
Home Remedies
If you have heart valve disease, including mitral valve disease, it's important to follow a healthy lifestyle. Your health care team may tell you to make lifestyle changes, including:
Eating a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fat, and excess salt and sugar.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with a health care professional to set realistic goals for body mass index and weight.
Getting regular physical activity. Aim to include about 30 minutes of physical activity, such as brisk walks, into your daily fitness routine. Talk to your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports.
Managing stress. Find ways to help manage your stress, such as through relaxation activities, meditation, physical activity, and spending time with family and friends.
Avoiding tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask a health care professional about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Avoid or limit alcohol. Heavy alcohol use can cause irregular heartbeats. Ask your health care team about the effects of drinking alcohol.
Get regular health checkups. Establish a regular schedule with your cardiologist or primary care doctor. Tell your health care team if you have any changes in your signs or symptoms.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to a health care professional about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy
If you have mitral valve disease and are thinking about getting pregnant, talk to your health care team first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve disease tolerates this extra work depends on many things. A health care professional also can explain how to safely treat mitral valve disease during pregnancy. Frequent health checkups are needed if you have heart valve disease during pregnancy.
Symptoms=Some people with mitral valve disease might not have symptoms for many years, if at all.
Symptoms of mitral valve disease can include:
Fatigue.
Irregular heartbeat.
Shortness of breath.
Risk Factors
Several things can increase the risk of mitral valve disease, including:
Older age.
Certain infections that affect the heart.
Heart attack and some types of heart disease.
Use of certain drugs.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Radiation to the chest.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mitral valve regurgitation
Home Remedies
Your health care team may suggest that you make several heart-healthy lifestyle changes. Take these steps:
Manage blood pressure. Control of high blood pressure is important if you have mitral valve regurgitation.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Food doesn't directly affect mitral valve regurgitation. But a healthy diet can help prevent other heart disease that can weaken the heart muscle. Eat foods that are low in saturated and trans fats, sugar, salt, and refined grains, such as white bread. Eat a variety of vegetables and fruits, whole grains, and proteins, such as lean meats, fish and nuts.
Get regular exercise. How long and hard you're able to exercise can depend on whether you have mild, moderate or severe mitral valve regurgitation. Talk with your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with a health care professional to set realistic goals for body mass index and weight.
Prevent infective endocarditis. If you've had mitral valve replacement, your doctor will likely recommend that you take antibiotics before dental procedures to prevent an infection called infective endocarditis.
Avoid or limit alcohol. Heavy alcohol use can cause irregular heartbeats and can make your symptoms worse. Excessive alcohol use also can cause a weakened heart muscle that leads to mitral regurgitation. Ask your health care team about the effects of drinking alcohol.
Avoid tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask your health care team about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with a health care professional about strategies that might help.
If you have mitral valve regurgitation and are thinking about getting pregnant, talk with your health care team first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve regurgitation tolerates this extra work depends on the degree of regurgitation and how well the heart pumps.
Symptoms=Mitral valve regurgitation is often mild and develops slowly. Some people do not have symptoms for many years.
But sometimes, mitral valve regurgitation develops quickly. When this happens, it's called acute mitral valve regurgitation.
Fatigue is a common but nonspecific symptom of mitral valve regurgitation. Other symptoms of mitral valve regurgitation include:
Irregular heartbeat, called an arrhythmia.
Shortness of breath, especially when lying down.
Feelings of a rapid, pounding or fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Swollen feet or ankles.
Risk Factors
Several things can increase the risk of mitral valve regurgitation, including:
Certain infections that affect the heart.
Heart attack.
Heart problems present at birth, called congenital heart defects.
History of other heart valve diseases, including mitral valve prolapse and mitral valve stenosis.
Older age.
Radiation to the chest.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mitral valve stenosis
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes can help improve heart health. If you have mitral valve stenosis, try these steps to keep your heart healthy:
Eat nutritious foods. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fat. Use less salt and sugar.
Keep a healthy weight. If you are overweight or have obesity, losing weight can help control blood pressure and lower the risk of complications. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Ask about exercise. How long and hard you're able to exercise may depend on the severity of mitral valve stenosis and the intensity of exercise. Talk to your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports. People with severe mitral stenosis should not do competitive sports.
Get regular health checkups. Regular health checkups are important if you have mitral valve stenosis. You should have an echocardiogram at least every year. If you frequently feel your heart pounding or beating fast, get medical help. Fast heart rhythms that aren't treated can quickly get worse in people with mitral valve stenosis.
Manage stress. Find ways to help manage stress, such as through relaxation activities, meditation, physical activity, and spending time with family and friends.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare professional about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy
If you have mitral valve stenosis and want to become pregnant, talk with a healthcare professional first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve stenosis handles the extra work depends on how narrow the valve is and how well the heart pumps. If you are pregnant and have mitral valve stenosis, your care team should closely check you during pregnancy. A healthcare professional can explain which medicines are safe to take during pregnancy. You and your healthcare professional also can discuss whether you need heart valve treatment before pregnancy.
Symptoms=Mitral valve stenosis usually worsens slowly. You may not have any symptoms, or you may have mild ones for many years. Symptoms of mitral valve stenosis can occur at any age, even during childhood.
Symptoms of mitral valve stenosis include:
Shortness of breath, especially with activity or when you lie down.
Fatigue, especially during increased activity.
Swollen feet or legs.
Pounding, skipping or otherwise irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Dizziness or fainting.
Fluid buildup in the lungs.
Chest discomfort or chest pain.
Coughing up blood.
Mitral valve stenosis symptoms may appear or get worse when the heart rate increases, such as during exercise. Anything that puts stress on the body, including pregnancy or infections, may trigger symptoms.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for mitral valve stenosis include:
Untreated strep infections. A history of untreated strep throat or rheumatic fever increases the risk of mitral valve stenosis. However, rheumatic fever is rare in the United States. But it's still a problem in developing nations.
Aging. Older adults are at increased risk of calcium buildup around the mitral valve.
Radiation therapy. Radiation causes changes in the mitral valve shape and structure. Rarely, people who receive radiation therapy to the chest area for certain types of cancer may develop mitral valve stenosis.
Illicit drug use. MDMA, short for methylenedioxymethamphetamine and commonly called molly or ecstasy, increases the risk of mitral valve disease.
Use of certain medicines. Some migraine medicines have an ingredient called ergot alkaloids. Ergotamine (Ergomar) is an example. Ergot alkaloids may rarely cause heart valve scarring that leads to mitral stenosis. Older weight-loss medicines that contained fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine also are linked to heart valve disease and other heart problems. Fen-phen is an example. It's no longer sold in the United States.
Prevention
Rheumatic fever is the most common cause of mitral valve stenosis. So the best way to prevent mitral valve stenosis is to prevent rheumatic fever. You can do this by making sure you and your children see a healthcare professional for sore throats. Untreated strep throat infections can develop into rheumatic fever. Strep throat is usually easily treated with antibiotics.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mittelschmerz
Home Remedies
To ease mittelschmerz discomfort that lasts more than a few minutes, try some home remedies. Because heat increases blood flow, relaxes tense muscles and eases cramping, you might want to:
Soak in a hot bath
Use a heating pad where the pain is
Symptoms=Mittelschmerz pain usually lasts a few minutes to a few hours, but it may continue for as long as a day or two. Pain from mittelschmerz may be:
On one side of your lower abdomen
Dull and achy, similar to menstrual cramps
Sharp and sudden
Accompanied by slight vaginal bleeding or discharge
Rarely, severe
Mittelschmerz pain occurs on the side of the ovary that's releasing an egg (ovulating). The pain may switch sides every other month, or you may feel pain on the same side for several months.
Keep track of your menstrual cycle for several months and note when you feel lower abdominal pain. If it occurs midcycle and goes away without treatment, it's most likely mittelschmerz.
Risk Factors
Mittelschmerz has no clear risk factors. But it may be more likely to happen between the ages of 15 and 25.
Prevention
Mittelschmerz can't be prevented. It's linked with natural changes in the body that happen during the menstrual cycle.
Video: Ovulation
Show transcript
for video Video: Ovulation
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Morning sickness
Home Remedies
To help relieve morning sickness:
Choose foods carefully. Select foods that are high in protein, low in fat and easy to digest. Avoid greasy, spicy and fatty foods. Bland foods, such as bananas, rice, applesauce and toast may be easy to digest. Salty foods might be helpful, as are foods that contain ginger — such as ginger lollipops.
Snack often. Before getting out of bed in the morning, eat a few soda crackers or a piece of dry toast. Nibble throughout the day, rather than eating three larger meals. You don't want to get too full, but an empty stomach can also make nausea worse.
Drink plenty of fluids. Sip water, real ginger ale or ginger tea. Try to drink 6 to 8 cups of fluids without caffeine each day.
Pay attention to nausea triggers. Avoid foods or smells that seem to make your nausea worse.
Take care with prenatal vitamins. If you feel queasy after taking prenatal vitamins, take the vitamins with a snack or just before bed. Or try chewable or gummy versions of the vitamins. If these steps don't help, ask your health care provider about other ways you can get the iron and vitamins you need during pregnancy.
Rinse your mouth after vomiting. The acid from your stomach can damage the enamel on your teeth. If you can, rinse your mouth with a cup of water mixed with a teaspoon of baking soda. This will help protect your teeth.
Symptoms=Nausea, with or without vomiting, is common in pregnancy. Morning sickness is often brought on by smelling certain odors or eating certain foods.
Morning sickness is most common during the first three months of pregnancy. It typically starts before nine weeks. Symptoms usually improve by the middle or end of the second three months of pregnancy.
Risk Factors
Morning sickness can affect anyone who's pregnant, but it might be more likely for those who:
Had nausea or vomiting from other causes before becoming pregnant, such as motion sickness or migraines
Had morning sickness during a prior pregnancy
Are pregnant with twins or other multiples
Hyperemesis gravidarum might be more likely for those who:
Are pregnant with a girl
Have a family history of hyperemesis gravidarum
Have had hyperemesis gravidarum during an earlier pregnancy
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent morning sickness. However, taking a daily vitamin supplement before and during pregnancy might help.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Morphea
Home Remedies
Because morphea dries the affected skin, moisturizers may help soften and improve the feel of your skin. It's a good idea to avoid long, hot showers or baths, as these can dry your skin.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of morphea vary depending on the type and stage of the condition. They include:
Reddish or purplish oval patches of skin, often on the belly, chest or back
Patches that gradually develop a lighter or whitish center
Linear patches, especially on the arms or legs and possibly the forehead or scalp
A gradual change in the affected skin, which becomes firm, thickened, dry and shiny
Morphea affects the skin and underlying tissue and sometimes bone. The condition generally lasts several years and then improves or at times disappears by itself. It may leave scars or areas of darkened or discolored skin. It is possible for morphea to recur.
Risk Factors
Certain factors may affect your risk of developing morphea, including:
Being white and female. Morphea is most common in white females.
Age. The condition can affect people at any age. It usually appears between the ages of 2 and 14 or in the mid-40s.
A family history of morphea. This condition can run in families. People with morphea are more likely to have a family history of morphea and other autoimmune diseases.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Morton's neuroma
Home Remedies
To help relieve the pain associated with Morton's neuroma and allow the nerve to heal, consider the following self-care tips:
Take anti-inflammatory medications. Over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), can reduce swelling and relieve pain.
Try ice massage. Regular ice massage may help reduce pain. Freeze a water-filled paper cup or plastic foam cup and roll the ice over the painful site.
Change your footwear. Avoid high heels or tight shoes. Choose shoes with a broad toe box and extra depth.
Take a break. For a few weeks, reduce activities such as jogging, aerobic exercise or dancing that subject your feet to high impact.
Symptoms=Typically, there's no outward sign of this condition, such as a lump. Instead, you may experience the following symptoms:
A feeling as if you're standing on a pebble in your shoe
A burning pain in the ball of your foot that may radiate into your toes
Tingling or numbness in your toes
In addition to these symptoms, you may find that removing your shoe and rubbing your foot often helps to relieve the pain.
Risk Factors
Factors that appear to contribute to Morton's neuroma include:
High heels. Wearing high-heeled shoes or shoes that are tight or ill fitting can place extra pressure on your toes and the ball of your foot.
Certain sports. Participating in high-impact athletic activities such as jogging or running may subject your feet to repetitive trauma. Sports that feature tight shoes, such as snow skiing or rock climbing, can put pressure on your toes.
Foot deformities. People who have bunions, hammertoes, high arches or flatfeet are at higher risk of developing Morton's neuroma.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mosquito bites
Home Remedies
Most mosquito bites stop itching and heal on their own in a few days. These self-care tips may make you more comfortable.
Applying a lotion, cream or paste. Avoid scratching itchy bites. It may help to apply calamine lotion or a nonprescription antihistamine cream or corticosteroid cream. Or try dabbing the bite with a paste made of baking soda and water. Reapply the cream or the paste three times a day until the itch is gone.
Rubbing with an ice cube. Try soothing an itchy bite by rubbing it with an ice cube for 30 seconds.
Applying pressure. Another way to soothe an itchy bite is by applying pressure for 10 seconds.
Taking an oral antihistamine. For stronger reactions, try taking a nonprescription antihistamine that doesn't cause sleepiness, such as cetirizine (Children's Zyrtec Allergy, Zyrtec Allergy, others) or loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
Symptoms=Mosquito bites often happen on parts of the body that aren't covered by clothing. Symptoms include:
An itchy, inflamed bump that forms a few minutes after a bite
A painful spot that looks like a hive and forms within 24 hours after a bite
Small blisters
A severe reaction to mosquito bites can cause:
A large, swollen, inflamed area
A hive-like rash
Swelling around the eyes
Children are more likely to have a severe reaction than are adults.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
Mosquitos bite during both day and night, and they can live indoors. You can take several steps to protect yourself from mosquito bites.
Avoid and exclude mosquitoes
Limit exposure to mosquitoes by:
Repairing any tears in the screens on windows, doors and camping gear
Using mosquito netting over strollers and cribs
Using mosquito netting when sleeping outdoors
Selecting self-care products that don't have scents
Use insect repellent
Use insect repellent when mosquitoes are active. The most effective insect repellents in the United States include one of these active ingredients:
DEET
Icaridin, also called picaridin
Oil of lemon eucalyptus
IR3535
Para-menthane-diol (PMD)
2-Undecanone
These ingredients temporarily repel mosquitoes and ticks. DEET may offer longer lasting protection. Whichever product you choose, read the label before you apply it. If you're using a spray repellent, apply it outdoors and away from food. You may need to reapply it 6 to 8 hours later if you're still in an area where mosquitoes are active.
If you're also using sunscreen, put it on first, about 20 minutes before applying the repellent. Avoid products that have both sunscreen and repellent, because you'll likely need to reapply sunscreen more often than repellent. And it's best to use only as much repellent as you need and to wash your hands after applying it.
Used according to package directions, these products are generally safe for children and adults, with a few exceptions:
Don't use DEET-containing products on infants younger than 2 months.
Don't use icaridin on infants younger than 6 months
Check the labels of products with oil of lemon eucalyptus — some aren't suitable for children under 3 years old.
Don't use para-menthane-diol on children under 3 years old
Don't let young children get insect repellent on their hands, as they might get it in their mouths.
Don't apply repellent near the eyes and mouth.
Don't apply repellent under clothing.
Don't apply repellent over sunburns, cuts, wounds or rashes.
When the risk of mosquito bites has passed, wash repellent off the skin with soap and water.
Treat clothing and outdoor gear
Permethrin is an insecticide and insect repellent used for added protection. This product is made to use on clothing and outdoor gear, not skin. Check the product label for instructions. Some sporting goods stores sell clothing pretreated with permethrin. Don't wash bed nets or set them in sunlight, as this breaks down permethrin. Clothing sprayed with permethrin can offer protection for two washings and up to two weeks.
Use protective clothing and gear
Weather permitting, wear a hat, long-sleeved shirts and long pants.
Take preventive medicine
Get vaccinations or take preventive medicine that your health care provider has suggested.
Think about whether you tend to have large or severe reactions to mosquito bites — skeeter syndrome. You might want to take a nondrowsy, nonprescription antihistamine when you know you'll be exposed to mosquitoes.
Reduce mosquitoes around your home
Get rid of standing water, which mosquitoes need to breed. Take these steps to keep your house and yard free of mosquito pools:
Unclog roof gutters.
Empty children's wading pools at least once a week, and preferably more often.
Change water in birdbaths at least weekly.
Get rid of old tires in your yard.
Empty outdoor flower pots regularly or store them upside down so that they can't collect water.
Drain your fire pit if water collects there.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Mouth cancer
Home Remedies
Quit using tobacco
Mouth cancers are closely linked to tobacco use, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, among others. Not everyone who is diagnosed with mouth cancer uses tobacco. But if you do, now is the time to stop because:
Tobacco use makes treatment less effective.
Tobacco use makes it harder for your body to heal after surgery.
Tobacco use increases your risk of a cancer recurrence and of getting another cancer in the future.
Quitting smoking or chewing can be very difficult. And it's that much harder when you're trying to cope with a stressful situation, such as a cancer diagnosis and treatment. Your doctor can discuss all of your options, including medications, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Quit drinking alcohol
Alcohol, particularly when combined with tobacco use, greatly increases the risk of mouth cancer. If you drink alcohol, stop drinking all types of alcohol. This may help reduce your risk of a second cancer.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of mouth cancer may include:
A lip or mouth sore that doesn't heal
A white or reddish patch on the inside of your mouth
Loose teeth
A growth or lump inside your mouth
Mouth pain
Ear pain
Difficult or painful swallowing
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of mouth cancer include:
Tobacco use of any kind, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, among others
Heavy alcohol use
Excessive sun exposure to your lips
A sexually transmitted virus called human papillomavirus (HPV)
A weakened immune system
Prevention
There's no proven way to prevent mouth cancer. However, you can reduce your risk of mouth cancer if you:
Stop using tobacco or don't start. If you use tobacco, stop. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. Using tobacco, whether smoked or chewed, exposes the cells in your mouth to dangerous cancer-causing chemicals.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. Chronic excessive alcohol use can irritate the cells in your mouth, making them vulnerable to mouth cancer. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women of all ages and men older than age 65, and up to two drinks a day for men age 65 and younger.
Avoid excessive sun exposure to your lips. Protect the skin on your lips from the sun by staying in the shade when possible. Wear a broad-brimmed hat that effectively shades your entire face, including your mouth. Apply a sunscreen lip product as part of your routine sun protection regimen.
See your dentist regularly. As part of a routine dental exam, ask your dentist to inspect your entire mouth for abnormal areas that may indicate mouth cancer or precancerous changes.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
There's no proven way to prevent mouth cancer. However, you can reduce your risk of mouth cancer if you:
Stop using tobacco or don't start. If you use tobacco, stop. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. Using tobacco, whether smoked or chewed, exposes the cells in your mouth to dangerous cancer-causing chemicals.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. Chronic excessive alcohol use can irritate the cells in your mouth, making them vulnerable to mouth cancer. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women of all ages and men older than age 65, and up to two drinks a day for men age 65 and younger.
Avoid excessive sun exposure to your lips. Protect the skin on your lips from the sun by staying in the shade when possible. Wear a broad-brimmed hat that effectively shades your entire face, including your mouth. Apply a sunscreen lip product as part of your routine sun protection regimen.
See your dentist regularly. As part of a routine dental exam, ask your dentist to inspect your entire mouth for abnormal areas that may indicate mouth cancer or precancerous changes.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/36/ds01089_im00214_c7_mouth_cancer_picturethu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Multiple sclerosis
Home Remedies
To help relieve the signs and symptoms of MS, try to:
Get plenty of rest. Look at your sleep habits to make sure you're getting the best possible sleep. To make sure you're getting enough sleep, you may need to be evaluated — and possibly treated — for sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea.
Exercise. If you have mild to moderate MS, regular exercise can help improve your strength, muscle tone, balance and coordination. Swimming or other water exercises are good options if you have intolerance to heat. Other types of mild to moderate exercise recommended for people with MS include walking, stretching, low-impact aerobics, stationary bicycling, yoga and tai chi.
Cool down. MS symptoms may worsen when the body temperature rises in some people with MS. Avoiding exposure to heat and using devices such as cooling scarves or vests can be helpful.
Eat a balanced diet. Since there is little evidence to support a particular diet, experts recommend a generally healthy diet. Some research suggests that vitamin D may have potential benefit for people with MS.
Relieve stress. Stress may trigger or worsen your signs and symptoms. Yoga, tai chi, massage, meditation or deep breathing may help.
More Information
Multiple sclerosis care at Mayo Clinic
Exercise and multiple sclerosis
Vitamin D and MS: Any connection?
Show more related information
Symptoms=Myelin damage and the nervous system
Enlarge image
Multiple sclerosis signs and symptoms may differ greatly from person to person and over the course of the disease depending on the location of affected nerve fibers.
Common symptoms include:
Numbness or weakness in one or more limbs that typically occurs on one side of your body at a time
Tingling
Electric-shock sensations that occur with certain neck movements, especially bending the neck forward (Lhermitte sign)
Lack of coordination
Unsteady gait or inability to walk
Partial or complete loss of vision, usually in one eye at a time, often with pain during eye movement
Prolonged double vision
Blurry vision
Vertigo
Problems with sexual, bowel and bladder function
Fatigue
Slurred speech
Cognitive problems
Mood disturbances
Risk Factors
These factors may increase your risk of developing multiple sclerosis:
Age. MS can occur at any age, but onset usually occurs around 20 and 40 years of age. However, younger and older people can be affected.
Sex. Women are more than 2 to 3 times as likely as men are to have relapsing-remitting MS.
Family history. If one of your parents or siblings has had MS, you are at higher risk of developing the disease.
Certain infections. A variety of viruses have been linked to MS, including Epstein-Barr, the virus that causes infectious mononucleosis.
Race. White people, particularly those of Northern European descent, are at highest risk of developing MS. People of Asian, African or Native American descent have the lowest risk. A recent study suggests that the number of Black and Hispanic young adults with multiple sclerosis may be greater than previously thought.
Climate. MS is far more common in countries with temperate climates, including Canada, the northern United States, New Zealand, southeastern Australia and Europe. Your birth month may also affect the chances of developing multiple sclerosis, since exposure to the sun when a mother is pregnant seems to decrease later development of multiple sclerosis in these children.
Vitamin D. Having low levels of vitamin D and low exposure to sunlight is associated with a greater risk of MS.
Your genes. A gene on chromosome 6p21 has been found to be associated with multiple sclerosis.
Obesity. An association with obesity and multiple sclerosis has been found in females. This is especially true for female childhood and adolescent obesity.
Certain autoimmune diseases. You have a slightly higher risk of developing MS if you have other autoimmune disorders such as thyroid disease, pernicious anemia, psoriasis, type 1 diabetes or inflammatory bowel disease.
Smoking. Smokers who experience an initial symptom that may signal MS are more likely than nonsmokers to develop a second event that confirms relapsing-remitting MS.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Multiple system atrophy
Home Remedies
Some lifestyle and home remedies can help minimize multiple system atrophy (MSA) symptoms.
Take steps to raise your blood pressure. Add a little salt to your diet and drink more fluids, especially before exercise. Salt and fluids can increase blood volume and raise your blood pressure. Drink coffee and other fluids that contain caffeine to increase your blood pressure.
Raise the head of your bed. Raising the head of your bed by about 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters) helps control your blood pressure when you sleep. Get up slowly after lying down.
Make dietary changes. Eat more fiber to ease constipation. Laxatives or stool softeners may help. You can get them without a prescription. Also eat small, low-carbohydrate meals.
Don't get too hot. Stay in air-conditioned rooms on very hot days. Make sure the bathroom doesn't become too hot when you shower or bathe.
Wear elastic support stockings up to your waist. This can help keep your blood pressure from dropping.
Symptoms=Multiple system atrophy (MSA) symptoms affect many parts of the body. Symptoms start in adulthood, usually in the 50s or 60s.
There are two types of MSA: parkinsonian and cerebellar. The type depends on the symptoms a person has when diagnosed.
Parkinsonian type
This is the most common type of MSA. Symptoms are similar to those of Parkinson's disease, such as:
Stiff muscles.
Trouble bending the arms and legs.
Slow movement, known as bradykinesia.
Tremors at rest or when moving the arms or legs.
Slurred, slow or soft speech, known as dysarthria.
Trouble with posture and balance.
Cerebellar type
The main symptoms of the cerebellar type involve poor muscle coordination, known as ataxia. Symptoms may include:
Trouble with movement and coordination. This includes loss of balance and not being able to walk steadily.
Slurred, slow or soft speech, known as dysarthria.
Changes in vision. This may include blurred or double vision and not being able to focus the eyes.
Trouble chewing or swallowing, known as dysphagia.
General symptoms
For both types of multiple system atrophy, the autonomic nervous system doesn't work properly. The autonomic nervous system controls involuntary functions in the body, such as blood pressure. When this system doesn't work properly, it can cause the following symptoms.
Postural hypotension, also known as orthostatic hypotension
Postural hypotension is a form of low blood pressure. People who have this type of low blood pressure feel dizzy or lightheaded when they stand up after sitting or lying down. They may even faint. Not everyone with MSA has postural hypotension.
People with MSA also can develop dangerously high blood pressure levels while lying down. This is called supine hypertension.
Urinary and bowel symptoms
These symptoms include:
Constipation.
Loss of bladder or bowel control, known as incontinence.
Changes in sweat production
People with multiple system atrophy may:
Produce less sweat.
Have heat intolerance because they sweat less.
Have poor body temperature control, often causing cold hands or feet.
Conditions that affect sleep
Sleep symptoms may include:
Agitated sleep due to "acting out" dreams. This is known as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder.
Breathing that stops and starts during sleep, known as sleep apnea.
A high-pitched whistling sound while breathing, called stridor.
Sexual symptoms
These symptoms may include:
Trouble getting or keeping an erection, known as erectile dysfunction.
Trouble with lubrication during sex and having an orgasm.
Loss of interest in sex.
Cardiovascular symptoms
MSA may cause:
Color changes in the hands and feet.
Psychiatric symptoms
People with multiple system atrophy also may experience:
Trouble controlling emotions, such as laughing or crying when not expected.
Risk Factors
A risk factor for multiple system atrophy (MSA) is having rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder. People with this disorder act out their dreams. Most people who have MSA have a history of REM sleep behavior disorder.
Another risk factor is having a condition caused by the autonomic nervous system not working properly. Symptoms such as urinary incontinence could be an early sign of MSA. The autonomic nervous system controls involuntary functions.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Muscle cramp
Home Remedies
Calf stretch
Enlarge image
If you have a cramp, these actions might help:
Stretch and massage. Stretch the cramped muscle and gently rub it. For a calf cramp, keep the leg straight while pulling the top of your foot on the side that's cramped toward your face. Also try standing with your weight on your cramped leg and pressing down firmly. This helps ease a cramp in the back of the thigh too.
For a front thigh cramp, try pulling the foot on that leg up toward your buttock. Hold on to a chair to steady yourself.
Apply heat or cold. Use a warm towel or heating pad on tense or tight muscles. Taking a warm bath or directing the stream of a hot shower onto the cramped muscle also can help. Rubbing the sore muscle with ice also might relieve pain.
Symptoms=Muscle cramps occur mostly in leg muscles, most often in the calf. Cramps usually last for seconds to minutes. After the cramp eases, the area might be sore for hours or days.
Risk Factors
Factors that might increase the risk of muscle cramps include:
Age. Older people lose muscle mass. Then the muscles can't work as hard and can get stressed more easily.
Poor conditioning. Not being in shape for an activity causes muscles to tire more easily.
Extreme sweating. Athletes who get tired and sweat a lot while playing sports in warm weather often get muscle cramps.
Pregnancy. Muscle cramps are common during pregnancy.
Medical issues. Having diabetes or illnesses that involve nerves, liver or thyroid can increase the risk of muscle cramps.
Weight. Being overweight can increase the risk of muscle cramps.
Prevention
These steps might help prevent cramps:
Drink plenty of liquids every day. Muscles need fluids to work well. During activity, drink liquids regularly. Keep drinking water or other liquids without caffeine or alcohol after the activity.
Stretch your muscles. Stretch gently before and after using any muscle for a time. To avoid getting leg cramps at night, stretch before bedtime. Light exercise, such as riding a stationary bicycle for a few minutes before bedtime, also may help prevent cramps while you sleep.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
These steps might help prevent cramps:
Drink plenty of liquids every day. Muscles need fluids to work well. During activity, drink liquids regularly. Keep drinking water or other liquids without caffeine or alcohol after the activity.
Stretch your muscles. Stretch gently before and after using any muscle for a time. To avoid getting leg cramps at night, stretch before bedtime. Light exercise, such as riding a stationary bicycle for a few minutes before bedtime, also may help prevent cramps while you sleep.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Muscle Pain
Home Remedies
Gentle stretching exercises.Warm compress or Epsom salt bath.Drinking plenty of water.Turmeric or ginger tea for inflammation.
Symptoms=Symptoms include aching, stiffness, or tenderness in one or more muscles, which can be localized or widespread. Muscle pain may result from various factors, including overuse, injury, stress, or underlying medical conditions such as fibromyalgia or infections. It can also be associated with symptoms like fatigue, swelling, or limited range of motion in the affected area.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Myasthenia gravis
Home Remedies
To help you make the most of your energy and cope with the symptoms of myasthenia gravis:
Adjust your eating routine. Try to eat when you have good muscle strength. Take your time chewing your food, and take a break between bites of food. You might find it easier to eat small meals several times a day. Also, try eating mainly soft foods and avoid foods that require more chewing, such as raw fruits or vegetables.
Use safety precautions at home. Install grab bars or railings in places where you need support, such as next to the bathtub or next to steps. Keep your floors clean, and move area rugs. Outside your home, keep paths, sidewalks and driveways cleared of leaves, snow and other debris that could cause you to trip.
Use electric appliances and power tools. To save your energy, try using an electric toothbrush, electric can openers and other electrical tools to perform tasks.
Wear an eye patch. If you have double vision, an eye patch can help. Try wearing one to write, read or watch television. Switch the eye patch to the other eye regularly to help reduce eyestrain.
Plan. If you have chores, shopping or errands to do, plan the activity for when you have the most energy.
Symptoms=Muscle weakness caused by myasthenia gravis gets worse when the affected muscle is used. Because symptoms usually get better with rest, muscle weakness can come and go. However, the symptoms tend to progress over time. They usually reach their worst within a few years after the disease begins.
Myasthenia gravis may affect any of the muscles that you can control. Certain muscle groups are more commonly affected than others.
Eye muscles
In more than half the people who develop myasthenia gravis, their first symptoms affect the eyes. Symptoms include:
Drooping of one or both eyelids, called ptosis.
Double vision, called diplopia, which may be horizontal or vertical, and improves or resolves when one eye is closed.
Face and throat muscles
In about 15% of people with myasthenia gravis, the first symptoms involve face and throat muscles. These symptoms can:
Make speaking difficult. Your speech might sound soft or nasal, depending on which muscles are affected.
Cause problems with swallowing. You might choke easily, making it difficult to eat, drink or take pills. Sometimes, liquids you're trying to swallow come out your nose.
Affect chewing. The muscles used for chewing might tire halfway through a meal. This is especially true if you've been eating something hard to chew, such as steak.
Change facial expressions. For example, your smile might look like a snarl.
Neck and limb muscles
Myasthenia gravis also can cause weakness in the neck, arms and legs. Weakness in the legs can affect how you walk. Weak neck muscles make it hard to hold up the head.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Myelodysplastic syndromes
Home Remedies
Because people with certain myelodysplastic syndromes have low white blood cell counts, they're subject to recurrent, and often serious, infections.
To reduce your risk of infections:
Wash your hands. Wash hands frequently and thoroughly with warm, soapy water, especially before eating or preparing food. Carry an alcohol-based hand sanitizer for times when water isn't available.
Take care with food. Thoroughly cook all meat and fish. Avoid fruits and vegetables you can't peel, especially lettuce, and wash all produce you do use before peeling it. To increase safety, you might want to avoid all raw foods.
Avoid people who are ill. Try to avoid close contact with anyone who is sick, including family members and co-workers.
Symptoms=Petechiae
Enlarge image
People with myelodysplastic syndromes might not experience signs and symptoms at first.
In time, myelodysplastic syndromes might cause:
Fatigue
Shortness of breath
Unusual paleness (pallor), which occurs due to a low red blood cell count (anemia)
Easy or unusual bruising or bleeding, which occurs due to a low blood platelet count (thrombocytopenia)
Pinpoint-sized red spots just beneath the skin that are caused by bleeding (petechiae)
Frequent infections, which occur due to a low white blood cell count (leukopenia)
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of myelodysplastic syndromes include:
Older age. Most people with myelodysplastic syndromes are older than 60.
Previous treatment with chemotherapy or radiation. Chemotherapy or radiation therapy, both of which are commonly used to treat cancer, can increase your risk of myelodysplastic syndromes.
Exposure to certain chemicals. Chemicals, including benzene, have been linked to myelodysplastic syndromes.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Myocarditis
Home Remedies
Rest and reducing the strain on the heart are important parts of myocarditis recovery.
If you have or had myocarditis, ask your healthcare professional which type and amount of physical activity is safe for you. If you have myocarditis, you should avoid competitive sports for at least 3 to 6 months.
Symptoms=Some people with early myocarditis don't have symptoms. Others have mild symptoms.
Common myocarditis symptoms include:
Chest pain.
Fatigue.
Swelling of the legs, ankles and feet.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Shortness of breath, at rest or during activity.
Lightheadedness or feeling like you might faint.
Flu-like symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pain, fever or sore throat.
Sometimes, myocarditis symptoms are like symptoms of a heart attack. If you are having unexplained chest pain and shortness of breath, seek emergency medical help.
Myocarditis in children
When children get myocarditis, symptoms may include:
Difficulty breathing.
Rapid breathing.
Chest pain.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Fainting.
Fever.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
There's no specific prevention for myocarditis. However, taking these steps to prevent infections might help:
Stay away from people who are sick. Stay away from people with symptoms of the flu or other respiratory illness until they are better. If you're sick with symptoms of a viral infection, try to avoid passing the germs to others.
Wash your hands regularly. Frequent hand-washing is one of the best ways to not get sick and spread germs.
Avoid risky behaviors. To reduce the chances of getting an HIV-related myocardial infection, practice safe sex and don't use illegal drugs.
Get recommended vaccines. Stay up to date on recommended vaccines, including those that protect against COVID-19, influenza and rubella — diseases that can cause myocarditis. Rarely, the COVID-19 vaccine can cause myocarditis and inflammation of the outer heart lining, called pericarditis, particularly in males ages 12 to 29. Talk with your healthcare team about the benefits and risks of vaccines.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Myofascial pain syndrome
Home Remedies
Keeping your body healthy may make it easier for you to cope with your pain. Try to:
Exercise. Gentle exercise can help you cope with pain. When your pain allows, get moving. Ask your physical therapist or another member of your healthcare team about good exercises for you.
Relax. If you're tense, you may feel more pain. Find ways to relax. Do deep breathing. Meditate. Write in a journal. Talk with friends. Do what helps ease your stress.
Take care of your body. Eat a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. Get enough sleep.
Symptoms=Symptoms of myofascial pain syndrome may include:
Deep, aching pain in a muscle.
Pain that doesn't go away or gets worse.
A tender knot in a muscle.
Trouble sleeping due to pain.
A general feeling of being not well, called malaise.
Tiredness.
Risk Factors
In myofascial pain syndrome, something such as muscle tightness sets off trigger points in the muscles. Factors that may increase the risk of muscle trigger points include:
Muscle injury. A muscle injury or ongoing muscle stress may lead to the forming of trigger points. For instance, a spot in or near a strained muscle may become a trigger point. Repeat motions and poor posture also can increase the risk.
Stress and anxiety. People who often feel stressed and anxious may be more likely to get trigger points in their muscles. One theory is that these people may be more likely to clench their muscles. Clenching is a form of repeated strain that leaves muscles open to trigger points.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Nail fungus
Home Remedies
Often, you can take care of a fungal nail infection at home:
Try nonprescription antifungal nail creams and ointments. Several products are available, such as terbinafine (Lamisil). If you notice white markings on the surfaces of the nails, file them off, soak your nails in water, dry them, and apply the medicated cream or lotion. Even if this clears up your symptoms, it's common for the infection to come back.
Trim and thin the nails. This helps reduce pain by reducing pressure on the nails. Also, if you do this before applying an antifungal, the drug can reach deeper layers of the nail.
Before trimming or using a nail file to thin thick nails, soften them with urea-containing creams. See a health care provider for foot care if you have a condition that causes poor blood flow to your feet.
Symptoms=Symptoms of nail fungus include a nail or nails that are:
Thickened
Discolored
Brittle, crumbly or ragged
Misshapen
Separated from the nail bed
Smelly
Nail fungus can affect fingernails, but it's more common in toenails.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of developing nail fungus include:
Older age
Wearing shoes that make your feet sweat heavily
Having had athlete's foot in the past
Walking barefoot in damp public areas, such as swimming pools, gyms and shower rooms
Having a minor skin or nail injury
Having a skin condition that affects the nails, such as psoriasis
Having diabetes, blood flow problems or a weakened immune system
Prevention
The following habits can help prevent nail fungus or reinfections and athlete's foot, which can lead to nail fungus:
Keep your nails clean and dry. Wash your hands and feet regularly. Wash your hands after touching an infected nail. Dry well, apply an antifungal foot powder and moisturize your nails. Consider applying a nail hardener, which might help strengthen nails and cuticles.
Keep your nails trimmed. Cut nails straight across, smooth the edges with a file and file down thickened areas. Disinfect your nail clippers after each use. Letting your nails grow long creates more places for the fungus to grow.
Wear absorbent socks or change your socks throughout the day.
Choose shoes made of materials that breathe.
Discard old shoes or treat them with disinfectants or antifungal powders.
Wear footwear in pool areas and locker rooms.
Choose a nail salon that uses sterilized manicure tools for each customer. Or disinfect tools you use for home pedicures.
Give up nail polish and artificial nails.
If you have athlete's foot, treat it with an antifungal product.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/40/r7_onychomycosis.jpg
Condition
Narcissistic personality disorder
Home Remedies
You may feel defensive about treatment or think it's unnecessary. The nature of narcissistic personality disorder also can leave you feeling that therapy is not worth your time and attention, and you may be tempted to quit. But it's important to:
Keep an open mind. Focus on the rewards of treatment.
Follow your treatment plan. Attend scheduled therapy sessions and take any medicines as directed. Remember, it can be hard work and you may have occasional setbacks.
Get treatment for alcohol or drug misuse or other mental health problems. Addiction, depression, anxiety and stress can lead to a cycle of emotional pain and unhealthy behavior.
Stay focused on your goals. Stay motivated by keeping your goals in mind and reminding yourself that you can work to repair damaged relationships and become more content with your life.
Symptoms=Symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder and how severe they are can vary. People with the disorder can:
Have an unreasonably high sense of self-importance and require constant, excessive admiration.
Feel that they deserve privileges and special treatment.
Expect to be recognized as superior even without achievements.
Make achievements and talents seem bigger than they are.
Be preoccupied with fantasies about success, power, brilliance, beauty or the perfect mate.
Believe they are superior to others and can only spend time with or be understood by equally special people.
Be critical of and look down on people they feel are not important.
Expect special favors and expect other people to do what they want without questioning them.
Take advantage of others to get what they want.
Have an inability or unwillingness to recognize the needs and feelings of others.
Be envious of others and believe others envy them.
Behave in an arrogant way, brag a lot and come across as conceited.
Insist on having the best of everything — for instance, the best car or office.
At the same time, people with narcissistic personality disorder have trouble handling anything they view as criticism. They can:
Become impatient or angry when they don't receive special recognition or treatment.
Have major problems interacting with others and easily feel slighted.
React with rage or contempt and try to belittle other people to make themselves appear superior.
Have difficulty managing their emotions and behavior.
Experience major problems dealing with stress and adapting to change.
Withdraw from or avoid situations in which they might fail.
Feel depressed and moody because they fall short of perfection.
Have secret feelings of insecurity, shame, humiliation and fear of being exposed as a failure.
Risk Factors
Although the cause of narcissistic personality disorder isn't known, some researchers think that overprotective or neglectful parenting may have an impact on children who are born with a tendency to develop the disorder. Genetics and other factors also may play a role in the development of narcissistic personality disorder.
Prevention
Because the cause of narcissistic personality disorder is unknown, there's no known way to prevent the condition. But it may help to:
Get treatment as soon as possible for childhood mental health problems.
Participate in family therapy to learn healthy ways to communicate or to cope with conflicts or emotional distress.
Attend parenting classes and seek guidance from a therapist or social worker if needed.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Narcolepsy
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes are important in managing the symptoms of narcolepsy. You may benefit if you:
Stick to a schedule. Go to sleep and wake up at the same time every day, including weekends.
Take naps. Schedule short naps at regular intervals during the day. Naps of 20 minutes during the day may be refreshing. They also may reduce sleepiness for 1 to 3 hours. Some people may need longer naps.
Avoid nicotine and alcohol. Using these substances, especially at night, can worsen your symptoms.
Get regular exercise. Plan for moderate, regular exercise at least 4 to 5 hours before bedtime. It may help you sleep better at night and feel more awake during the day.
Symptoms=The symptoms of narcolepsy may get worse during the first few years of the disorder. Then they continue for life. They include:
Excessive daytime sleepiness. People with narcolepsy fall asleep without warning. It can happen anywhere and at any time. It may happen when you're bored or during a task. For example, you may be working or talking with friends and suddenly fall asleep. It can be especially dangerous if you fall asleep while driving. You might fall asleep for only a few minutes or up to a half-hour. After waking, you'll often feel refreshed but you'll get sleepy again.
You also may experience a decrease in how alert and focused you feel during the day. Daytime sleepiness often is the first symptom to appear. Feeling sleepy makes it hard to focus and function.
Some people with narcolepsy continue doing a task when they fall asleep briefly. For example, you may fall asleep while writing, typing or driving. You might continue to perform that task while asleep. When you awaken, you can't remember what you did, and you probably didn't do it well.
Sudden loss of muscle tone. This condition is called cataplexy. It can cause slurred speech or complete weakness of most muscles. Symptoms may last up to a few minutes.
Cataplexy can't be controlled. It's triggered by intense emotions. Often the emotions that cause cataplexy are positive. Laughter or excitement may cause the symptoms. But sometimes fear, surprise or anger can cause the loss of muscle tone. For example, when you laugh, your head may drop without your control. Or your knees may suddenly lose strength, causing you to fall.
Some people with narcolepsy experience only one or two episodes of cataplexy a year. Others have several episodes a day. Not everyone with narcolepsy has these symptoms.
Sleep paralysis. People with narcolepsy often experience sleep paralysis. During sleep paralysis, you can't move or speak while falling asleep or upon waking. It's usually brief — lasting a few seconds or minutes. But it can be scary. You may be aware of it happening and can recall it afterward.
Not everyone with sleep paralysis has narcolepsy.
Hallucinations. Sometimes people see things that aren't there during sleep paralysis. Hallucinations also may happen in bed without sleep paralysis. These are called hypnagogic hallucinations if they happen as you fall asleep. They're called hypnopompic hallucinations if they happen upon waking. For example, you might feel as if there is a stranger in your bedroom. These hallucinations may be vivid and frightening because you may not be fully asleep when you begin dreaming.
Changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. REM sleep is when most dreaming happens. Typically, people enter REM sleep 60 to 90 minutes after falling asleep. But people with narcolepsy often move more quickly to REM sleep. They tend to enter REM sleep within 15 minutes of falling asleep. REM sleep also can happen at any time of the day.
Other characteristics
People with narcolepsy may have other sleep disorders. They might have obstructive sleep apnea, in which breathing starts and stops during the night. Or they may act out their dreams, known as REM sleep behavior disorder. Or they may have trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, called insomnia.
Risk Factors
There are only a few known risk factors for narcolepsy, including:
Age. Narcolepsy typically begins between ages 10 and 30.
Family history. Your risk of narcolepsy is 20 to 40 times higher if you have a close family member who has it.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma
Home Remedies
Coping with dry mouth
Radiation therapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma often causes dry mouth. Dry mouth may last a long time after treatment. For some people, it doesn't go away.
Dry mouth can cause discomfort. It also can lead to infections in your mouth. It can make it hard to eat, swallow and speak. And it can affect the health of your teeth. Ask your healthcare professional about seeing a dentist if you have dry mouth complications.
To help ease dry mouth and its complications:
Brush your teeth a few times each day. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush. Brush gently. Tell your healthcare team if gentle brushing hurts your mouth.
Rinse your mouth with a solution after meals. Ask your healthcare team what solution to use.
Keep your mouth moist with water or sugarless candies. Drink water throughout the day to keep your mouth moist. Also try ice chips, sugarless gum or sugarless candies to help your mouth make saliva.
Choose moist foods. Don't eat dry foods. Moisten food with sauce, gravy, broth, butter or milk.
Don't eat acidic or spicy foods and drinks. Choose foods and drinks that won't irritate your mouth. Don't drink caffeinated and alcoholic beverages.
Tell your healthcare team if you have dry mouth. There may be treatments to help you cope with more-severe symptoms of dry mouth. Your healthcare team also may send you to an expert in nutrition, called a dietitian. A dietitian can help you find foods that are easier to eat with dry mouth.
Symptoms=Nasopharyngeal carcinoma may not cause signs or symptoms at first. When it does cause symptoms, they might include:
A lump in your neck caused by a swollen lymph node.
Bleeding from the nose.
Bloody saliva.
Double vision.
Ear infections.
Facial numbness.
Headaches.
Hearing loss.
Nasal stuffiness.
Ringing in the ears, called tinnitus.
Sore throat.
Risk Factors
Researchers have found some factors that seem to raise the risk of getting nasopharyngeal carcinoma. They include:
Certain ancestries. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is more common in parts of China, Southeast Asia, northern Africa and the Arctic. People who live in these areas or have ancestry that comes from these parts of the world may have an increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Middle age. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma can occur at any age. But most often it's diagnosed in adults between the ages of 30 and 60.
Salt-cured foods. Chemicals released in steam when cooking salt-cured foods might raise the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The steam from foods such as fish and preserved vegetables may enter the nose during cooking. Contact with these chemicals at an early age may raise the risk even more.
Epstein-Barr virus. This common virus most often causes mild symptoms like those of a cold. Sometimes it can cause infectious mononucleosis. The Epstein-Barr virus also is linked to some cancers, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Family history. Having a family member with nasopharyngeal carcinoma raises the risk of the disease.
Alcohol and tobacco. Heavy alcohol intake and tobacco use can raise your risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent nasopharyngeal carcinoma. But, if you're worried about your risk of this cancer, think about giving up habits that have been linked with the disease. For instance, don't use tobacco. You may choose to cut back on or not eat salt-cured foods.
Tests to screen for nasopharyngeal carcinoma
In the United States and in other areas where the disease is rare, there's no routine screening for nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
In places where nasopharyngeal carcinoma is much more common, such as some areas of China, people at high risk of the disease may have screening. Screening may involve blood tests to detect the Epstein-Barr virus.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Nausea
Home Remedies
Ginger in tea or candied form.Peppermint tea for soothing effects.Avoiding strong odors and spicy foods.Small, frequent sips of water.
Symptoms= Common symptoms include a queasy feeling, loss of appetite, sweating, and increased salivation. Nausea can be triggered by various factors, including motion sickness, food poisoning, stress, hormonal changes, or underlying medical conditions like gastroenteritis or migraines. In some cases, it may also be associated with dizziness or abdominal pain.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Nearsightedness
Home Remedies
Steps you can take to promote good eye health and vision include the following:
Get regular eye exams.
Protect your eyes from the sun.
Wear protective eyewear during sports or work that can result in eye injuries.
Use good lighting when reading and working.
Wear prescription corrective lenses as directed.
Care for prescription glasses or contact lenses as directed.
Rest your eyes from computer or other close-up work every 20 minutes by looking at something 20 feet away for 20 seconds.
Eat healthy foods.
Get regular exercise.
Control health conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes, that can affect your vision.
Don't smoke.
Symptoms=Nearsightedness symptoms may include:
Blurry vision when looking at distant objects.
The need to squint or partially close the eyelids to see clearly.
Headaches.
Eyestrain.
School-age children may have difficulty seeing things on whiteboards or screen projections in the classroom. Younger children might not express difficulty seeing, but they may have the following behaviors that suggest difficulty seeing:
Constant squinting.
Seeming to not be aware of distant objects.
Blinking often.
Rubbing the eyes often.
Sitting close to the television or moving screens closer to the face.
Adults with nearsightedness may notice difficulty reading street signs or signs in stores. Some people may experience blurry vision in dim light, as with nighttime driving, even if they see clearly in daylight. This condition is called night myopia.
Risk Factors
Certain risk factors may increase the likelihood of developing nearsightedness, including:
Genetics. Nearsightedness tends to run in families. If one of your parents is nearsighted, your risk of developing the condition is increased. The risk is higher if both parents are nearsighted.
Prolonged close-up activities. Reading or doing other close-up activities for a long time is associated with an increased risk of nearsightedness.
Screen time. Studies have shown that children who use computers or smart devices for long periods have a greater risk of developing nearsightedness.
Environmental conditions. Some studies support the idea that not spending enough time outdoors may increase the risk of nearsightedness.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2022/09/15/12/26/nearsightedness-8-col-666582-001.jpg
Condition
Neck pain
Home Remedies
Besides taking pain relievers, self-care measures that might relieve neck pain include:
Alternate heat and cold. Reduce inflammation by applying cold, such as an ice pack or ice wrapped in a towel, for up to 15 minutes several times a day during the first 48 hours. After that, use heat. Try taking a warm shower or using a heating pad on the low setting.
Home exercises. Keeping the neck moving is important. Begin daily gentle stretching, including neck rolls and shoulder rolls, once the worst of the pain lessens. Gently tilt, bend and rotate the neck. Warm the neck and back with a heating pad or in the shower or bath before doing these exercises.
Symptoms=Symptoms include:
Pain that's often worsened by holding the head in one place for long periods, such as when driving or working at a computer
Muscle tightness and spasms
Decreased ability to move the head
Headache
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
Most neck pain is associated with poor posture combined with age-related wear and tear. To help prevent neck pain, keep your head centered over your spine. Some simple changes in your daily routine may help. Consider trying to:
Use good posture. When standing and sitting, be sure your shoulders are in a straight line over your hips and your ears are directly over your shoulders. When using cell phones, tablets and other small screens, keep your head up and hold the device straight out rather than bending your neck to look down at the device.
Take frequent breaks. If you travel long distances or work long hours at your computer, get up, move around, and stretch your neck and shoulders.
Adjust your desk, chair and computer so that the monitor is at eye level. Knees should be slightly lower than hips. Use your chair's armrests.
If you smoke, quit. Smoking can increase the risk of developing neck pain.
Avoid carrying heavy bags with straps over your shoulder. The weight can strain your neck.
Sleep in a healthy position. Your head and neck should be aligned with your body. Use a small pillow under your neck. Try sleeping on your back with your thighs elevated on pillows, which will flatten your spinal muscles.
Stay active. If you don't move much, increase your activity level.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Neurodermatitis
Home Remedies
These self-care measures can help you manage neurodermatitis:
Stop rubbing and scratching. The itching may be intense, but avoiding rubbing and scratching is key to controlling your condition and preventing the itch from coming back.
Apply cool, wet cloths. These may soothe the skin and relieve the itch. Put a cool, wet cloth on the affected skin for a few minutes before you apply a medicated cream. This helps the cream soak into the skin.
Try cooling lotions. Apply calamine lotion or a lotion that contains camphor or menthol.
Try nonprescription medications. Apply an anti-itch cream or lotion to the affected area. Do this three times a day for two days. A hydrocortisone cream can temporarily relieve the itch. If you keep the cream in the refrigerator, it's cool and soothing when you use it. Or try a nonsteroidal cream with menthol or pramoxine (CeraVe, Sarna, others) to help ease the itch.
An oral antihistamine, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), can relieve severe itching and help you sleep. Some people have success with capsaicin cream, but it may sting at first.
Cover the affected area. Bandages or dressings can help protect the skin and prevent scratching. These may be especially useful if you scratch during your sleep.
Keep your nails trimmed. Short nails may do less damage to the skin, especially if you tend to scratch while you're asleep. You might try wearing mittens when you sleep too.
Take short, warm baths and moisturize your skin. Prepare your bath with warm — not hot — water. Sprinkle in an oatmeal-based, also called colloidal, bath product (Aveeno). Use mild soaps without dyes or perfumes. Limit bathing time and frequency. Ideally, shower or bathe no more than once a day, and try to limit the shower or bath to 10 minutes or less.
After washing, pat your skin dry and apply unscented moisturizer.
Avoid triggers. Notice what seems to bring on a recurrence and avoid it. For example, if a stressful event triggered itching, try learning stress management techniques.
Symptoms=Symptoms of neurodermatitis include:
An itchy, scaly skin patch or patches
Open sores that bleed
Thick, leathery skin
Discolored, wrinkled genital skin
Raised, rough patches that are inflamed or darker than the rest of the skin
The condition involves areas that can be reached for scratching — the scalp, neck, wrists, forearms, ankles, vulva, scrotum and anus. The itchiness, which can be intense, may come and go or be nonstop. You may scratch your skin out of habit and while sleeping.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of neurodermatitis include:
Age. The condition is most common among people between 30 and 50 years of age.
Other skin conditions. People who have or had other skin conditions, such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis, are more likely to develop neurodermatitis.
Family history. People whose blood relatives have or had hay fever, childhood eczema or asthma may be more likely to develop neurodermatitis.
Anxiety disorders. Anxiety and emotional stress can trigger neurodermatitis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/11/03/ds00712_im03193_ans7_neurodermthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Nightmare disorder
Home Remedies
If nightmares are a problem for you or your child, try these strategies:
Establish a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. A consistent bedtime routine is important. Do quiet, calming activities — such as reading books, doing puzzles or soaking in a warm bath — before bed. Meditation, deep breathing or relaxation exercises may help, too. Also, make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep.
Offer reassurances. If your child is struggling with nightmares, be patient, calm and reassuring. After your child awakens from a nightmare, respond quickly and soothe your child at the bedside. This may prevent future nightmares.
Talk about the dream. Ask your child to describe the nightmare. What happened? Who was in the dream? What made it scary? Then remind your child that nightmares aren't real and can't hurt you.
Rewrite the ending. Imagine a happy ending for the nightmare. Encourage your child to draw a picture of the nightmare, "talk" to the characters in the nightmare or write about the nightmare in a journal. Sometimes a little creativity can help.
Put stress in its place. If stress or anxiety is an issue, talk about it. Practice some simple stress-relief activities, such as deep breathing or relaxation. A mental health professional can help, if needed.
Provide comfort measures. Your child might feel more secure if he or she sleeps with a favorite stuffed animal, blanket or other comfort object. Leave your child's door open at night so that he or she won't feel alone. Leave your door open, too, in case your child needs comfort during the night.
Use a night light. Keep a night light on in your child's room. If your child wakes up during the night, the light may be reassuring.
Symptoms=You're more likely to have a nightmare in the second half of your night. Nightmares may occur rarely or more frequently, even several times a night. Episodes are generally brief, but they cause you to awaken, and returning to sleep can be difficult.
A nightmare may involve these features:
Your dream seems vivid and real and is very upsetting, often becoming more disturbing as the dream unfolds.
Your dream storyline is usually related to threats to safety or survival, but it can have other disturbing themes.
Your dream awakens you.
You feel scared, anxious, angry, sad or disgusted as a result of your dream.
You feel sweaty or have a pounding heartbeat while in bed.
You can think clearly upon awakening and can recall details of your dream.
Your dream causes distress that keeps you from falling back to sleep easily.
Nightmares are only considered a disorder if you experience:
Frequent occurrences
Major distress or impairment during the day, such as anxiety or persistent fear, or bedtime anxiety about having another nightmare
Problems with concentration or memory, or you can't stop thinking about images from your dreams
Daytime sleepiness, fatigue or low energy
Problems functioning at work or school or in social situations
Behavior problems related to bedtime or fear of the dark
Having a child with nightmare disorder can cause significant sleep disturbance and distress for parents or caregivers.
When to see a doctor
Occasional nightmares aren't usually a cause for concern. If your child has nightmares, you can simply mention them at a routine well-child exam. However, consult your doctor if nightmares:
Occur frequently and persist over time
Routinely disrupt sleep
Cause fear of going to sleep
Cause daytime behavior problems or difficulty functioning
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Nightmare disorder is referred to by doctors as a parasomnia — a type of sleep disorder that involves undesirable experiences that occur while you're falling asleep, during sleep or when you're waking up. Nightmares usually occur during the stage of sleep known as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. The exact cause of nightmares is not known.
Nightmares can be triggered by many factors, including:
Stress or anxiety. Sometimes the ordinary stresses of daily life, such as a problem at home or school, trigger nightmares. A major change, such as a move or the death of a loved one, can have the same effect. Experiencing anxiety is associated with a greater risk of nightmares.
Trauma. Nightmares are common after an accident, injury, physical or sexual abuse, or other traumatic event. Nightmares are common in people who have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Sleep deprivation. Changes in your schedule that cause irregular sleeping and waking times or that interrupt or reduce the amount of sleep you get can increase your risk of having nightmares. Insomnia is associated with an increased risk of nightmares.
Medications. Some drugs — including certain antidepressants, blood pressure medications, beta blockers, and drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease or to help stop smoking — can trigger nightmares.
Substance misuse. Alcohol and recreational drug use or withdrawal can trigger nightmares.
Other disorders. Depression and other mental health disorders may be linked to nightmares. Nightmares can happen along with some medical conditions, such as heart disease or cancer. Having other sleep disorders that interfere with adequate sleep can be associated with having nightmares.
Scary books and movies. For some people, reading scary books or watching frightening movies, especially before bed, can be associated with nightmares.
Risk factors
Nightmares are more common when family members have a history of nightmares or other sleep parasomnias, such as talking during sleep.
Complications
Nightmare disorder may cause:
Excessive daytime sleepiness, which can lead to difficulties at school or work, or problems with everyday tasks, such as driving and concentrating
Problems with mood, such as depression or anxiety from dreams that continue to bother you
Resistance to going to bed or to sleep for fear you'll have another bad dream
Suicidal thoughts or suicide attempts



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Nightmares are more common when family members have a history of nightmares or other sleep parasomnias, such as talking during sleep.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
Home Remedies
With help from your health care team, you can take steps to manage nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. You can:
Lose weight. If you're overweight or obese, reduce the number of calories you eat each day and increase your physical activity to lose weight slowly. Eating fewer calories is key to losing weight and managing this disease. If you tried to lose weight in the past and couldn't, ask your health care team for help.
Choose a healthy diet. Eat a healthy diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Your health care team may suggest avoiding or limiting certain foods and drinks, such as white bread, red and processed meats, juices, and sweetened drinks. Keep track of all calories you take in.
Exercise and be more active. Aim for at least 150 minutes of exercise a week. If you're trying to lose weight, you might find that more exercise is helpful. But if you don't already exercise regularly, get your health care team's OK first and start slowly.
Manage your diabetes. Follow your health care team's advice to manage your diabetes. Take your medicines as told by your care team and watch your blood sugar closely.
Lower your cholesterol and blood pressure. Improve your cholesterol levels and blood pressure if they are high. A healthy diet, exercise and medicines can help keep your cholesterol, triglycerides and blood pressure at healthy levels.
Protect your liver. Avoid things that could harm your liver health. For example, don't drink alcohol. Follow the instructions on all medicines and nonprescription drugs. Check with your health care team before using any herbal supplements, as some can harm the liver.
Symptoms=The liver
Enlarge image
NAFLD often has no symptoms. When it does, they may include:
Fatigue.
Not feeling well, or malaise.
Pain or discomfort in the upper right belly area.
Possible symptoms of NASH and cirrhosis, or severe scarring, include:
Itchy skin.
Abdominal swelling, also called ascites (uh-SY-teez).
Shortness of breath.
Swelling of the legs.
Spider-like blood vessels just beneath the skin's surface.
Enlarged spleen.
Red palms.
Yellowing of the skin and eyes, or jaundice.
Risk Factors
Many diseases and health problems can increase your risk of NAFLD, including:
Family history of fatty liver disease or obesity.
Growth hormone deficiency, which means the body doesn't make enough hormones to grow.
High cholesterol.
High levels of triglycerides in the blood.
Insulin resistance.
Metabolic syndrome.
Obesity, especially when fat is centered in the waist.
Polycystic ovary syndrome.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Type 2 diabetes.
Underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism.
Underactive pituitary gland, or hypopituitarism.
NASH is more likely in these groups:
People older than 50.
People with certain genetic risk factors.
People with obesity.
People with diabetes or high blood sugar.
People with symptoms of metabolic syndrome, such as high blood pressure, high triglycerides and a large waist size.
It is hard to tell apart NAFLD from NASH without a clinical evaluation and testing.
Prevention
To reduce your risk of NAFLD:
Eat a healthy diet. Eat a healthy diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and healthy fats.
Limit alcohol, simple sugars and portion sizes. Avoid sugary drinks like soda, sports drinks, juices and sweet tea. Drinking alcohol can damage your liver and should be avoided or minimized.
Keep a healthy weight. If you are overweight or obese, work with your health care team to gradually lose weight. If you are a healthy weight, work to keep it by eating a healthy diet and exercising.
Exercise. Be active most days of the week. Get an OK from your health care team first if you haven't been exercising regularly.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Obesity
Home Remedies
Your effort to overcome obesity is more likely to be successful if you follow strategies at home along with your formal treatment plan. These can include:
Learning about your condition. Education about obesity can help you learn more about why you developed obesity and what you can do about it. You may feel more empowered to take control and stick to your treatment plan. Read reputable self-help books and consider talking about them with your health care professional or therapist.
Setting realistic goals. When you have to lose a lot of weight, you may set goals that are unrealistic, such as trying to lose too much too fast. Don't set yourself up for failure. Set daily or weekly goals for exercise and weight loss. Make small changes in your diet instead of attempting drastic changes that you're not likely to stick with for the long haul.
Sticking to your treatment plan. Changing a lifestyle you may have lived with for many years can be hard to do. Be honest with your doctor, therapist or other health care professionals if you find your activity or eating goals slipping. You can work together to come up with new ideas or new approaches.
Enlisting support. Get your family and friends on board with your weight-loss goals. Surround yourself with people who will support you and help you, not sabotage your efforts. Make sure they understand how important weight loss is to your health. You also might want to join a weight-loss support group.
Keeping a record. Keep a food and activity log. This record can help you remain accountable for your eating and exercise habits. You can discover things that may be holding you back. You also might see what works well for you. You can use your log to track other important health parameters such as blood pressure, cholesterol levels and overall fitness.
Symptoms=Body mass index, known as BMI, is often used to diagnose obesity. To calculate BMI, multiply weight in pounds by 703, divide by height in inches and then divide again by height in inches. Or divide weight in kilograms by height in meters squared. There are several online calculators available that help calculate BMI.
See BMI calculator
BMI Weight status
Below 18.5 Underweight
18.5-24.9 Healthy
25.0-29.9 Overweight
30.0 and higher Obesity
Asians with a BMI of 23 or higher may have an increased risk of health problems.
For most people, BMI provides a reasonable estimate of body fat. However, BMI doesn't directly measure body fat. Some people, such as muscular athletes, may have a BMI in the obesity category even though they don't have excess body fat.
Many health care professionals also measure around a person's waist to help guide treatment decisions. This measurement is called a waist circumference. Weight-related health problems are more common in men with a waist circumference over 40 inches (102 centimeters). They're more common in women with a waist measurement over 35 inches (89 centimeters). Body fat percentage is another measurement that may be used during a weight loss program to track progress.
Risk Factors
Obesity often results from a combination of causes and contributing factors:
Family inheritance and influences
The genes you inherit from your parents may affect the amount of body fat you store, and where that fat is distributed. Genetics also may play a role in how efficiently your body converts food into energy, how your body regulates your appetite and how your body burns calories during exercise.
Obesity tends to run in families. That's not just because of the genes they share. Family members also tend to share similar eating and activity habits.
Lifestyle choices
Unhealthy diet. A diet that's high in calories, lacking in fruits and vegetables, full of fast food, and laden with high-calorie beverages and oversized portions contributes to weight gain.
Liquid calories. People can drink many calories without feeling full, especially calories from alcohol. Other high-calorie beverages, such as sugared soft drinks, can contribute to weight gain.
Inactivity. If you have an inactive lifestyle, you can easily take in more calories every day than you burn through exercise and routine daily activities. Looking at computer, tablet and phone screens is inactivity. The number of hours spent in front of a screen is highly associated with weight gain.
Certain diseases and medications
In some people, obesity can be traced to a medical cause, such as hypothyroidism, Cushing syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome and other conditions. Medical problems, such as arthritis, also can lead to decreased activity, which may result in weight gain.
Some medicines can lead to weight gain if you don't compensate through diet or activity. These medicines include steroids, some antidepressants, anti-seizure medicines, diabetes medicines, antipsychotic medicines and certain beta blockers.
Social and economic issues
Social and economic factors are linked to obesity. It's hard to avoid obesity if you don't have safe areas to walk or exercise. You may not have learned healthy ways of cooking. Or you may not have access to healthier foods. Also, the people you spend time with may influence your weight. You're more likely to develop obesity if you have friends or relatives with obesity.
Age
Obesity can occur at any age, even in young children. But as you age, hormonal changes and a less active lifestyle increase your risk of obesity. The amount of muscle in your body also tends to decrease with age. Lower muscle mass often leads to a decrease in metabolism. These changes also reduce calorie needs and can make it harder to keep off excess weight. If you don't consciously control what you eat and become more physically active as you age, you'll likely gain weight.
Other factors
Pregnancy. Weight gain is common during pregnancy. Some women find this weight difficult to lose after the baby is born. This weight gain may contribute to the development of obesity in women.
Quitting smoking. Quitting smoking is often associated with weight gain. And for some, it can lead to enough weight gain to qualify as obesity. Often, this happens as people use food to cope with smoking withdrawal. But overall, quitting smoking is still a greater benefit to your health than is continuing to smoke. Your health care team can help you prevent weight gain after quitting smoking.
Lack of sleep. Not getting enough sleep can cause changes in hormones that increase appetite. So can getting too much sleep. You also may crave foods high in calories and carbohydrates, which can contribute to weight gain.
Stress. Many external factors that affect mood and well-being may contribute to obesity. People often seek more high-calorie food during stressful situations.
Microbiome. The make-up of your gut bacteria is affected by what you eat and may contribute to weight gain or trouble losing weight.
Even if you have one or more of these risk factors, it doesn't mean that you're destined to develop obesity. You can counteract most risk factors through diet, physical activity and exercise. Behavior changes, medicines and procedures for obesity also can help.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Home Remedies
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a chronic condition, which means that it may always be part of your life. While a professional should treat OCD, you can do some things to build on your treatment plan:
Practice what you learn. Work with your mental health professional to pinpoint methods to help manage symptoms. Practice these methods regularly.
Take your medicines as directed. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medicines. If you stop, OCD symptoms are likely to return.
Pay attention to warning signs. You and your doctor may have pinpointed issues that can cause your OCD symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel.
Check first before taking other medicines. Contact the doctor who's treating you for OCD before you take medicines prescribed by another doctor or before taking any medicines available without a prescription, vitamins, herbal remedies or other supplements. This will help reduce possible interactions.
Symptoms=Obsessive-compulsive disorder usually includes both obsessions and compulsions. But it's also possible to have only obsession symptoms or only compulsion symptoms. You may or may not know that your obsessions and compulsions are beyond reason. But they take up a great deal of time, reduce your quality of life, and get in the way of your daily routines and responsibilities.
Obsession symptoms
OCD obsessions are lasting and unwanted thoughts that keeping coming back or urges or images that are intrusive and cause distress or anxiety. You might try to ignore them or get rid of them by acting based on ritual. These obsessions usually intrude when you're trying to think of or do other things.
Obsessions often have themes, such as:
Fear of contamination or dirt.
Doubting and having a hard time dealing with uncertainty.
Needing things to be orderly and balanced.
Aggressive or horrific thoughts about losing control and harming yourself or others.
Unwanted thoughts, including aggression, or sexual or religious subjects.
Examples of obsession symptoms include:
Fear of being contaminated by touching objects others have touched.
Doubts that you've locked the door or turned off the stove.
Intense stress when objects aren't orderly or facing a certain way.
Images of driving your car into a crowd of people.
Thoughts about shouting obscenities or not acting the right way in public.
Unpleasant sexual images.
Staying away from situations that can cause obsessions, such as shaking hands.
Compulsion symptoms
OCD compulsions are repetitive behaviors that you feel driven to do. These repetitive behaviors or mental acts are meant to reduce anxiety related to your obsessions or prevent something bad from happening. But taking part in the compulsions brings no pleasure and may offer only limited relief from anxiety.
You may make up rules or rituals to follow that help control your anxiety when you're having obsessive thoughts. These compulsions are beyond reason and often don't relate to the issue they're intended to fix.
As with obsessions, compulsions usually have themes, such as:
Washing and cleaning.
Checking.
Counting.
Ordering.
Following a strict routine.
Demanding reassurance.
Examples of compulsion symptoms include:
Hand-washing until your skin becomes raw.
Checking doors over and over again to make sure they're locked.
Checking the stove over and over again to make sure it's off.
Counting in certain patterns.
Silently repeating a prayer, word or phrase.
Trying to replace a bad thought with a good thought.
Arranging your canned goods to face the same way.
Severity varies
OCD usually begins in the teen or young adult years, but it can start in childhood. Symptoms usually begin over time and tend to vary in how serious they are throughout life. The types of obsessions and compulsions you have also can change over time. Symptoms generally get worse when you are under greater stress, including times of transition and change. OCD, usually thought to be a lifelong disorder, can have mild to moderate symptoms or be so severe and time-consuming that it becomes disabling.
Risk Factors
Factors that may raise the risk of causing obsessive-compulsive disorder include:
Family history. Having parents or other family members with the disorder can raise your risk of getting OCD.
Stressful life events. If you've gone through traumatic or stressful events, your risk may increase. This reaction may cause the intrusive thoughts, rituals and emotional distress seen in OCD.
Other mental health disorders. OCD may be related to other mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorders, depression, substance abuse or tic disorders.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent obsessive-compulsive disorder. However, getting treated as soon as possible may help keep OCD from getting worse and disrupting activities and your daily routine.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Obstructive sleep apnea
Home Remedies
In many cases, self-care may be the most appropriate way for you to deal with obstructive sleep apnea. Try these tips:
Lose weight. If you're overweight or obese, even moderate weight loss may help relieve constriction of your airway. Losing weight also can improve your health and quality of life and might reduce your daytime sleepiness.
Exercise. Exercising, such as aerobic exercise and strength training, can help improve your condition. Aim to exercise about 150 minutes a week, and generally try to exercise most days of the week.
Don't drink alcohol or use some anti-anxiety medicines or sleeping pills. Alcohol, some anti-anxiety medicines and some sleeping pills can worsen obstructive sleep apnea and sleepiness.
Sleep on your side or stomach rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway.
To prevent sleeping on your back, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top or place pillows behind you to keep you sleeping on your side.
Keep your nasal passages open while you sleep. If you have congestion, use a saline nasal spray to help keep your nasal passages open. Talk to a member of your health care team about using nasal decongestants or antihistamines, because some medicines may be recommended for only short-term use.
Symptoms=Symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea include:
Excessive daytime sleepiness.
Loud snoring.
Observed episodes of stopped breathing during sleep.
Waking during the night and gasping or choking.
Awakening in the morning with a dry mouth or sore throat.
Morning headaches.
Trouble focusing during the day.
Mood changes, such as depression or being easily upset.
High blood pressure.
Decreased interest in sex.
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop obstructive sleep apnea. However, certain factors put you at increased risk, including:
Excess weight. Most but not all people with obstructive sleep apnea are overweight. Fat deposits around the upper airway can obstruct breathing. Medical conditions that are associated with obesity, such as hypothyroidism and polycystic ovary syndrome, also can cause obstructive sleep apnea.
Older age. The risk of obstructive sleep apnea increases as you age but appears to level off after your 60s and 70s.
Narrowed airway. A naturally narrow airway is a trait that can be passed down in your family. Or your tonsils or adenoids might become enlarged and block your airway.
High blood pressure, known as hypertension. Obstructive sleep apnea is relatively common in people with hypertension.
Chronic nasal congestion. Obstructive sleep apnea occurs twice as often in those who have consistent nasal congestion at night, regardless of the cause.
Smoking. People who smoke are more likely to have obstructive sleep apnea.
Diabetes. Obstructive sleep apnea might be more common in people with diabetes.
Male sex. In general, men are 2 to 3 times more likely as premenopausal women to have obstructive sleep apnea. However, the risk of obstructive sleep apnea increases in women after menopause.
A family history of sleep apnea. Having family members with obstructive sleep apnea might increase your risk.
Asthma. Research has found an association between asthma and the risk of obstructive sleep apnea.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ocular rosacea
Home Remedies
You can help manage your ocular rosacea by following a good eye care routine. Keep up this routine even when your condition clears up to help prevent flare-ups. These tips may help.
Keep your eyelids clean by gently washing them at least twice a day with warm water or a product your doctor recommends.
Avoid makeup if your eyes are inflamed. When you're able to wear makeup, choose types that are nonoily (noncomedogenic) and free of fragrance.
Avoid wearing contact lenses during flare-ups, especially if your symptoms include dry eyes.
Prevent flare-ups by avoiding things that trigger or worsen your rosacea or ocular rosacea, if possible. Items that tend to dilate blood vessels in the face include hot, spicy foods and alcoholic beverages.
Use artificial tears to relieve dryness. Ask your doctor for guidance.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of ocular rosacea can precede the skin symptoms of rosacea, develop at the same time, develop later or occur on their own. Signs and symptoms of ocular rosacea may include:
Red, burning, itchy or watering eyes
Dry eyes
Grittiness or the feeling of having a foreign body in the eye or eyes
Blurred vision
Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
Dilated small blood vessels on the white part of the eye that are visible when you look in a mirror
Red, swollen eyelids
Recurrent eye or eyelid infections, such as pink eye (conjunctivitis), blepharitis, sties or chalazia
The severity of ocular rosacea symptoms doesn't always match the severity of skin symptoms.
Risk Factors
Ocular rosacea is common in people with skin rosacea, although you can also have ocular rosacea without the skin being involved. Skin rosacea affects more women than men, and ocular rosacea affects men and women equally. It's also more common in fair-skinned people of Celtic and Northern European origin.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)
Home Remedies
At home, you can work on improving problem behaviors of oppositional defiant disorder by practicing these strategies:
Recognize and praise your child's positive behaviors as close to the time you see them as possible. Be as specific as possible. For example, "I really liked the way you helped pick up your toys tonight." Providing rewards for positive behavior also may help, especially with younger children.
Model the behavior you want your child to have. Watching you interact well with others can help your child improve social skills.
Pick your battles and avoid power struggles. Almost everything can turn into a power struggle if you let it.
Set limits by giving clear instructions and using consistent reasonable consequences. Discuss setting these limits during times when you're not arguing with each other.
Set up a routine by developing a regular daily schedule for your child. Ask your child to help develop that routine.
Build in time together by planning a weekly schedule that includes you and your child doing things together.
Work together with your partner or others in your household to ensure consistent and appropriate discipline procedures. Also ask for support from teachers, coaches and other adults who spend time with your child.
Assign a household chore that's needed and that won't get done unless your child does it. At first, it's important to set your child up for success with tasks that are fairly easy to do well. Gradually blend in more-important and challenging jobs. Give clear, easy-to-follow instructions. Use this as an opportunity to reinforce positive behavior.
Be prepared for challenges early on. At first, your child probably won't cooperate or appreciate your changed response to their behavior. Expect behavior to worsen at first after you tell them the new things you now expect. At this early stage, staying consistent even if the problem behavior worsens, is the key to success.
With regular and consistent effort, using these methods can result in improved behavior and relationships.
Symptoms=Sometimes it's difficult to recognize the difference between a strong-willed or emotional child and one with oppositional defiant disorder. It's common for children to show oppositional behavior at certain stages of development.
Symptoms of ODD generally begin during preschool years. Sometimes ODD may develop later, but almost always before the early teen years. Oppositional and defiant behaviors are frequent and ongoing. They cause severe problems with relationships, social activities, school and work, for both the child and the family.
Emotional and behavioral symptoms of ODD generally last at least six months. They include angry and irritable mood, argumentative and defiant behavior, and hurtful and revengeful behavior.
Angry and irritable mood
Often and easily loses temper.
Is frequently touchy and easily annoyed by others.
Is often angry and resentful.
Argumentative and defiant behavior
Often argues with adults or people in authority.
Often actively defies or refuses to follow adults' requests or rules.
Often annoys or upsets people on purpose.
Often blames others for their own mistakes or misbehavior.
Hurtful and revengeful behavior
Says mean and hateful things when upset.
Tries to hurt the feelings of others and seeks revenge, also called being vindictive.
Has shown vindictive behavior at least twice in the past six months.
Severity
ODD can be mild, moderate or severe:
Mild. Symptoms occur only in one setting, such as only at home, school, work or with peers.
Moderate. Some symptoms occur in at least two settings.
Severe. Some symptoms occur in three or more settings.
For some children, symptoms may first be seen only at home. But with time, problem behavior also may happen in other settings, such as school, social activities and with friends.
Risk Factors
Oppositional defiant disorder is a complex problem. Possible risk factors for ODD include:
Temperament — a child who has a temperament that includes difficulty managing emotions, such as reacting with strong emotions to situations or having trouble tolerating frustration.
Parenting issues — a child who experiences abuse or neglect, harsh or inconsistent discipline, or a lack of proper supervision.
Other family issues — a child who lives with parent or family relationships that are unstable or has a parent with a mental health condition or substance use disorder.
Environment — problem behaviors that are reinforced through attention from peers and inconsistent discipline from other authority figures, such as teachers.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent oppositional defiant disorder. But positive parenting and early treatment can help improve behavior and prevent the situation from getting worse. The earlier that ODD can be managed, the better.
Treatment can help restore your child's self-esteem and rebuild a positive relationship between you and your child. Your child's relationships with other important adults in their life — such as teachers and care providers — also will benefit from early treatment.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Oral lichen planus
Home Remedies
In addition to regular medical and dental treatment, self-care measures may help improve your oral lichen planus symptoms or help prevent recurring episodes of severe symptoms:
Practice good oral hygiene. Keep your mouth clean to reduce your symptoms and help prevent infection. Gently brush your teeth at least twice a day using a bland toothpaste, and floss daily.
Adjust your diet. Cut out spicy, salty or acidic foods if they seem to trigger or worsen your symptoms. Choose foods that are soft to help limit discomfort. And reduce or eliminate the use of caffeine.
Avoid irritants. Avoid alcohol or tobacco. Also avoid habits that can injure the inside of your mouth, such as chewing on your lip or cheek.
Learn to manage stress. Because stress may complicate symptoms or trigger symptom recurrence, you may need to develop skills to avoid or manage stress. Your doctor may refer you to a mental health professional who can help you identify stressors, develop stress management strategies or address other mental health concerns.
See your doctor or dentist regularly. See your dentist twice a year for checkups and cleanings, or more often as directed by your dentist. Because long-term treatment is often required, talk to your doctor or dentist about how often you should be seen to evaluate how your treatment is working and for cancer screening.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of oral lichen planus affect the mucous membranes of the mouth.
Appearance
The lesions may appear as:
Lacy, white, raised patches of tissues
Red, swollen, tender patches of tissues
Open sores
Location
These lesions may appear on the:
Inside of the cheeks, the most common location
Gums
Tongue
Inner tissues of the lips
Palate
Pain or discomfort
The white, lacy patches may not cause discomfort when they appear on the inside of the cheeks. However, symptoms accompanying red, swollen patches and open sores may include:
Burning sensation or pain
Sensitivity to hot, acidic or spicy foods
Bleeding and irritation with tooth brushing
Inflammation of the gums (gingivitis)
Painful, thickened patches on the tongue
Discomfort when speaking, chewing or swallowing
Other types of lichen planus
If you have oral lichen planus, you may have lichen planus lesions affecting other parts of your body.
Skin. Lesions usually appear as purplish, flat-topped bumps that are often itchy.
Genitals. Lesions on the female genitalia often cause pain or burning and discomfort with intercourse. The lesions are usually red and eroded and occasionally appear as white areas. Lesions can also occur on male genitalia.
Ears. Lichen planus of the ears can lead to hearing loss.
Scalp. When skin lesions appear on the scalp, they may cause temporary or permanent hair loss.
Nails. Though rare, lichen planus of the toenails or fingernails may result in ridges on the nails, thinning or splitting of nails, and temporary or permanent nail loss.
Eyes. Rarely, lichen planus may involve the mucous membrane surfaces of the eyes, and can cause scarring and blindness.
Esophagus. Lichen planus of the esophagus is rare, but when it occurs, it may result in a narrowing of the esophagus or the formation of tightened, ringlike bands in the esophagus that can make swallowing difficult.
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop oral lichen planus, but it's more common in middle-aged women.
Some factors may increase your risk of developing oral lichen planus, such as having a disorder that lowers your immunity or taking certain medications, though more research is needed.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Oral thrush
Home Remedies
These suggestions may help during an outbreak of oral thrush:
Practice good oral hygiene. Brush and floss regularly. Replace your toothbrush often until your infection clears up. Don't share toothbrushes.
Disinfect dentures. Ask your dentist for the best way to disinfect your dentures to avoid reinfection.
Try warm saltwater rinses. Dissolve about 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 milliliters) of salt in 1 cup (237 milliliters) of warm water. Swish the rinse and then spit it out, but don't swallow.
Use nursing pads. If you're breast-feeding and develop a fungal infection, use pads to help prevent the fungus from spreading to your clothes. Look for pads that don't have a plastic barrier, which can encourage the growth of candida. Wear a clean bra every day. Ask your doctor about the best way to clean your breast nipples, bottle nipples, pacifiers and any detachable parts of a breast pump if you use one.
Symptoms=Children and adults
Initially, you may not even notice symptoms of oral thrush. Signs and symptoms may include:
Creamy white lesions on your tongue, inner cheeks, and sometimes on the roof of your mouth, gums and tonsils
Slightly raised lesions with a cottage cheese-like appearance
Redness, burning or soreness that may be severe enough to cause difficulty eating or swallowing
Slight bleeding if the lesions are rubbed or scraped
Cracking and redness at the corners of your mouth
A cottony feeling in your mouth
Loss of taste
Redness, irritation and pain under dentures (denture stomatitis)
In severe cases, usually related to cancer or a weakened immune system from HIV/AIDS, the lesions may spread downward into your esophagus — the long, muscular tube stretching from the back of your mouth to your stomach (Candida esophagitis). If this occurs, you may experience difficulty swallowing and pain or feel as if food is getting stuck in your throat.
Infants and breast-feeding mothers
In addition to the distinctive white mouth lesions, infants may have trouble feeding or be fussy and irritable. They can pass the infection to their mothers during breast-feeding. The infection may then pass back and forth between the mother's breasts and the baby's mouth.
Women whose breasts are infected with candida may experience these signs and symptoms:
Unusually red, sensitive, cracked or itchy nipples
Shiny or flaky skin on the darker, circular area around the nipple (areola)
Unusual pain during nursing or painful nipples between feedings
Stabbing pains deep within the breast
When to see a doctor
If you or your child develops white lesions inside the mouth, see your doctor or dentist.
Thrush is uncommon in healthy older children, teenagers and adults, so if thrush develops, see your doctor to determine if further evaluation is needed to check for an underlying medical condition or other cause.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Normally, your immune system works to repel harmful invading organisms, such as viruses, bacteria and fungi, while maintaining a balance between "good" and "bad" microbes that normally inhabit your body. But sometimes these protective mechanisms fail, increasing the number of candida fungus and allowing an oral thrush infection to take hold.
The most common type of candida fungus is Candida albicans. Several factors, such as a weakened immune system, can increase your risk of oral thrush.
Risk factors
You may have an increased risk of oral thrush infection if any of these issues apply:
Weakened immunity. Oral thrush is more likely to occur in infants and older adults due to reduced immunity. Some medical conditions and treatments can suppress your immune system, such as cancer and its treatments, organ transplantation and required drugs that suppress the immune system, and HIV/AIDS.
Diabetes. If you have untreated diabetes or the disease isn't well-controlled, your saliva may contain large amounts of sugar, which encourages the growth of candida.
Vaginal yeast infections. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by the same fungus that causes oral thrush. You can pass the infection to your baby.
Medications. Drugs such as prednisone, inhaled corticosteroids, or antibiotics that disturb the natural balance of microorganisms in your body can increase your risk of oral thrush.
Other oral conditions. Wearing dentures, especially upper dentures, or having conditions that cause dry mouth can increase the risk of oral thrush.
Complications
Oral thrush is seldom a problem for healthy children and adults.
For people with lowered immunity, such as from cancer treatment or HIV/AIDS, thrush can be more serious. Untreated oral thrush can lead to more-serious systemic candida infections. If you have a weakened immune system, thrush may spread to your esophagus or other parts of your body.
Prevention
These measures may help reduce your risk of developing candida infections:
Rinse your mouth. If you need to use a corticosteroid inhaler, be sure to rinse your mouth with water or brush your teeth after taking your medication.
Brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss daily or as often as your dentist recommends.
Check your dentures. Remove your dentures at night. Make sure dentures fit properly and don't cause irritation. Clean your dentures daily. Ask your dentist for the best way to clean your type of dentures.
See your dentist regularly, especially if you have diabetes or wear dentures. Ask your dentist how often you need to be seen.
Watch what you eat. Try limiting the amount of sugar-containing foods you eat. These may encourage the growth of candida.
Maintain good blood sugar control if you have diabetes. Well-controlled blood sugar can reduce the amount of sugar in your saliva, discouraging the growth of candida.
Treat a vaginal yeast infection as soon as possible.
Treat dry mouth. Ask your doctor about ways to avoid or treat your dry mouth.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
You may have an increased risk of oral thrush infection if any of these issues apply:
Weakened immunity. Oral thrush is more likely to occur in infants and older adults due to reduced immunity. Some medical conditions and treatments can suppress your immune system, such as cancer and its treatments, organ transplantation and required drugs that suppress the immune system, and HIV/AIDS.
Diabetes. If you have untreated diabetes or the disease isn't well-controlled, your saliva may contain large amounts of sugar, which encourages the growth of candida.
Vaginal yeast infections. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by the same fungus that causes oral thrush. You can pass the infection to your baby.
Medications. Drugs such as prednisone, inhaled corticosteroids, or antibiotics that disturb the natural balance of microorganisms in your body can increase your risk of oral thrush.
Other oral conditions. Wearing dentures, especially upper dentures, or having conditions that cause dry mouth can increase the risk of oral thrush.
Prevention
These measures may help reduce your risk of developing candida infections:
Rinse your mouth. If you need to use a corticosteroid inhaler, be sure to rinse your mouth with water or brush your teeth after taking your medication.
Brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss daily or as often as your dentist recommends.
Check your dentures. Remove your dentures at night. Make sure dentures fit properly and don't cause irritation. Clean your dentures daily. Ask your dentist for the best way to clean your type of dentures.
See your dentist regularly, especially if you have diabetes or wear dentures. Ask your dentist how often you need to be seen.
Watch what you eat. Try limiting the amount of sugar-containing foods you eat. These may encourage the growth of candida.
Maintain good blood sugar control if you have diabetes. Well-controlled blood sugar can reduce the amount of sugar in your saliva, discouraging the growth of candida.
Treat a vaginal yeast infection as soon as possible.
Treat dry mouth. Ask your doctor about ways to avoid or treat your dry mouth.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Orchitis
Home Remedies
To ease discomfort:
Rest in bed
Lie down so that your scrotum is elevated
Apply cold packs to your scrotum as tolerated
Avoid lifting heavy objects
Symptoms=Orchitis signs and symptoms usually develop suddenly and can include:
Swelling in one or both testicles
Pain ranging from mild to severe
Fever
Nausea and vomiting
General feeling of unwellness (malaise)
The terms "testicle pain" and "groin pain" are sometimes used interchangeably. But groin pain occurs in the fold of skin between the thigh and abdomen — not in the testicle. The causes of groin pain are different from the causes of testicle pain.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for nonsexually transmitted orchitis include:
Not being immunized against mumps
Having recurring urinary tract infections
Having surgery that involves the genitals or urinary tract
Being born with an abnormality in the urinary tract
Sexual behaviors that can lead to STIs put you at risk of sexually transmitted orchitis. Those behaviors include having:
Multiple sexual partners
Sex with a partner who has an STI
Sex without a condom
A personal history of an STI
Prevention
To prevent orchitis:
Get immunized against mumps, the most common cause of viral orchitis
Practice safe sex, to help protect against STIs that can cause bacterial orchitis
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Osteoporosis
Home Remedies
These suggestions might help reduce your risk of developing osteoporosis or breaking bones:
Don't smoke. Smoking increases rates of bone loss and the chance of fracture.
Limit alcohol. Consuming more than two alcoholic drinks a day may decrease bone formation. Being under the influence of alcohol also can increase your risk of falling.
Prevent falls. Wear low-heeled shoes with nonslip soles and check your house for electrical cords, area rugs and slippery surfaces that might cause you to fall. Keep rooms brightly lit, install grab bars just inside and outside your shower door, and make sure you can get into and out of your bed easily.
Symptoms=There typically are no symptoms in the early stages of bone loss. But once your bones have been weakened by osteoporosis, you might have signs and symptoms that include:
Back pain, caused by a broken or collapsed bone in the spine.
Loss of height over time.
A stooped posture.
A bone that breaks much more easily than expected.
Risk Factors
A number of factors can increase the likelihood that you'll develop osteoporosis — including your age, race, lifestyle choices, and medical conditions and treatments.
Unchangeable risks
Some risk factors for osteoporosis are out of your control, including:
Your sex. Women are much more likely to develop osteoporosis than are men.
Age. The older you get, the greater your risk of osteoporosis.
Race. You're at greatest risk of osteoporosis if you're white or of Asian descent.
Family history. Having a parent or sibling with osteoporosis puts you at greater risk, especially if your mother or father fractured a hip.
Body frame size. Men and women who have small body frames tend to have a higher risk because they might have less bone mass to draw from as they age.
Hormone levels
Osteoporosis is more common in people who have too much or too little of certain hormones in their bodies. Examples include:
Sex hormones. Lowered sex hormone levels tend to weaken bone. The fall in estrogen levels in women at menopause is one of the strongest risk factors for developing osteoporosis. Treatments for prostate cancer that reduce testosterone levels in men and treatments for breast cancer that reduce estrogen levels in women are likely to accelerate bone loss.
Thyroid problems. Too much thyroid hormone can cause bone loss. This can occur if your thyroid is overactive or if you take too much thyroid hormone medicine to treat an underactive thyroid.
Other glands. Osteoporosis has also been associated with overactive parathyroid and adrenal glands.
Dietary factors
Osteoporosis is more likely to occur in people who have:
Low calcium intake. A lifelong lack of calcium plays a role in the development of osteoporosis. Low calcium intake contributes to diminished bone density, early bone loss and an increased risk of fractures.
Eating disorders. Severely restricting food intake and being underweight weakens bone in both men and women.
Gastrointestinal surgery. Surgery to reduce the size of your stomach or to remove part of the intestine limits the amount of surface area available to absorb nutrients, including calcium. These surgeries include those to help you lose weight and for other gastrointestinal disorders.
Steroids and other medicines
Long-term use of oral or injected corticosteroid medicines, such as prednisone and cortisone, interferes with the bone-rebuilding process. Osteoporosis has also been associated with medications used to combat or prevent:
Seizures.
Gastric reflux.
Cancer.
Transplant rejection.
Medical problems
The risk of osteoporosis is higher in people who have certain medical problems, including:
Celiac disease.
Inflammatory bowel disease.
Kidney or liver disease.
Cancer.
Multiple myeloma.
Rheumatoid arthritis.
Lifestyle choices
Some bad habits can increase your risk of osteoporosis. Examples include:
Sedentary lifestyle. People who spend a lot of time sitting have a higher risk of osteoporosis than do those who are more active. Any weight-bearing exercise and activities that promote balance and good posture are good for your bones, but walking, running, jumping, dancing and weightlifting seem particularly helpful.
Excessive alcohol consumption. Regular consumption of more than two alcoholic drinks a day increases the risk of osteoporosis.
Tobacco use. The exact role tobacco plays in osteoporosis isn't clear, but it has been shown that tobacco use contributes to weak bones.
Prevention
Keep Your Bones Healthy
While nearly everyone will lose bone over the course of their lifetime, there are several steps you can take to keep your bones healthy.
Show transcript
for video Keep Your Bones Healthy
Good nutrition and regular exercise are essential for keeping your bones healthy throughout your life.
Calcium
Men and women between the ages of 18 and 50 need 1,000 milligrams of calcium a day. This daily amount increases to 1,200 milligrams when women turn 50 and men turn 70.
Good sources of calcium include:
Low-fat dairy products.
Dark green leafy vegetables.
Canned salmon or sardines with bones.
Soy products, such as tofu.
Calcium-fortified cereals and orange juice.
If you find it difficult to get enough calcium from your diet, consider taking calcium supplements. However, too much calcium has been linked to kidney stones. Although yet unclear, some experts suggest that too much calcium, especially in supplements, can increase the risk of heart disease.
The Health and Medicine Division of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends that total calcium intake, from supplements and diet combined, should be no more than 2,000 milligrams daily for people older than 50.
Vitamin D
Vitamin D improves the body's ability to absorb calcium and improves bone health in other ways. People can get some of their vitamin D from sunlight, but this might not be a good source if you live in a high latitude, if you're housebound, or if you regularly use sunscreen or avoid the sun because of the risk of skin cancer.
Dietary sources of vitamin D include cod liver oil, trout and salmon. Many types of milk and cereal have been fortified with vitamin D.
Most people need at least 600 international units (IU) of vitamin D a day. That recommendation increases to 800 IU a day after age 70.
People without other sources of vitamin D and especially with limited sun exposure might need a supplement. Most multivitamin products contain between 600 and 800 IU of vitamin D. Up to 4,000 IU of vitamin D a day is safe for most people.
Exercise
Exercise can help you build strong bones and slow bone loss. Exercise will benefit your bones no matter when you start, but you'll gain the most benefits if you start exercising regularly when you're young and continue to exercise throughout your life.
Combine strength training exercises with weight-bearing and balance exercises. Strength training helps strengthen muscles and bones in your arms and upper spine. Weight-bearing exercises — such as walking, jogging, running, stair climbing, skipping rope, skiing and impact-producing sports — affect mainly the bones in your legs, hips and lower spine. Balance exercises such as tai chi can reduce your risk of falling especially as you get older.
More Information
Exercising with osteoporosis
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Overactive bladder
Home Remedies
The following might reduce overactive bladder symptoms:
Not drinking too much or too little. Ask your healthcare professional how much to drink daily. Drinking too much fluid can make your symptoms worse. But not drinking enough can bother the lining of your bladder and increase the urge to urinate.
Limit foods and drinks that might bother your bladder. These include caffeine, alcohol, tea, carbonated drinks, citrus juice and fruit, chocolate, spicy foods, and tomatoes. Try not eating or drinking these to see if it helps.
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing weight may ease your symptoms. Heavier people also are at greater risk of stress urinary incontinence. That also may improve with weight loss.
Manage constipation. Constipation can make urinary incontinence worse. Your healthcare professional might suggest that you add more fiber to your diet. You can add fiber by eating more high-fiber foods or by taking a fiber supplement.
Quit smoking. Smoking can make urinary incontinence worse. If you smoke, ask your healthcare professional for help with quitting.
Wear absorbent pads or underwear. These are designed to take in liquids, control odor and protect your clothing when urine leaks.
Symptoms=If you have an overactive bladder, you may:
Feel a sudden urge to urinate that's hard to control.
Lose urine without meaning to after an urgent need to urinate, called urgency incontinence.
Urinate often. This can mean eight or more times in 24 hours.
Wake up more than twice a night to urinate, called nocturia.
Even if you can get to the toilet in time when you feel an urge to urinate, having to urinate often during day and night can disrupt your life.
Risk Factors
Aging increases the risk of overactive bladder. So does being female. Conditions such as enlarged prostate and diabetes also can increase the risk.
Many people with declines in thinking ability, such as those who have had a stroke or have Alzheimer's disease, get an overactive bladder. That's because they're less able to notice the symptoms of needing to urinate. Drinking fluids on a schedule, timing and prompting urination, absorbent garments, and bowel programs can help manage the condition.
Some people with an overactive bladder also have trouble with bowel control. Tell your healthcare professional if you're having trouble controlling your bowels.
Prevention
These healthy lifestyle choices may reduce your risk of overactive bladder:
Do exercises to make the pelvic floor muscles stronger. These are called Kegel exercises.
Get regular, daily physical activity and exercise.
Limit caffeine and alcohol.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage ongoing, called chronic, conditions, such as diabetes, that might add to overactive bladder symptoms.
Quit smoking.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Painful intercourse (dyspareunia)
Home Remedies
To help with pain during sex, you and your partner could try to:
Change positions. If you have sharp pain during thrusting, try different positions, such as being on top. In this position, you might be able to regulate penetration to a depth that feels good to you.
Communicate. Talk about what feels good and what doesn't. If you need your partner to go slow, say so.
Don't rush. Longer foreplay can help stimulate your natural lubrication. You might reduce pain by delaying penetration until you feel fully aroused.
Use lubricants. A personal lubricant can make sex more comfortable. Try different brands until you find one you like.
Symptoms=If you have painful intercourse, you might feel:
Pain only at sexual entry, called penetration.
Pain with every penetration, including putting in a tampon.
Deep pain during thrusting.
Burning pain or aching pain.
Throbbing pain lasting hours after sex.
Risk Factors
Many factors can raise the risk of painful intercourse. They include illnesses, surgeries and other medical treatments, and mental health issues.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pancreatitis
Home Remedies
Once you leave the hospital, you can take steps to continue your recovery from pancreatitis, such as:
Stop drinking alcohol. Even if alcohol was not the likely cause of pancreatitis, it is best to stop drinking alcohol while recovering. If it was the expected cause, stop drinking. If you're unable to stop drinking alcohol on your own, ask your doctor for help. Your doctor can refer you to local programs to help you stop drinking.
Stop smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you can't quit on your own, ask your doctor for help. Medicines and counseling can help you quit smoking.
Choose a low-fat diet. Choose a diet that limits fat and emphasizes fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein.
Drink more fluids. Pancreatitis can cause dehydration, so drink more fluids throughout the day. It may help to keep a water bottle or glass of water with you.
Symptoms=Symptoms of pancreatitis may vary. Acute pancreatitis symptoms may include:
Pain in the upper belly.
Pain in the upper belly that radiates to the back.
Tenderness when touching the belly.
Fever.
Rapid pulse.
Upset stomach.
Vomiting.
Chronic pancreatitis signs and symptoms include:
Pain in the upper belly.
Belly pain that feels worse after eating.
Losing weight without trying.
Oily, smelly stools.
Some people with chronic pancreatitis only develop symptoms after they get complications of the disease.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of pancreatitis include:
Excessive alcohol use. Research shows that having four or five drinks a day increases the risk of pancreatitis.
Cigarette smoking. Compared with nonsmokers, smokers are on average three times more likely to develop chronic pancreatitis. Quitting smoking can decrease the risk.
Obesity. People with a body mass index of 30 or higher are at increased risk of pancreatitis.
Diabetes. Having diabetes increases the risk of pancreatitis.
Family history of pancreatitis. A number of genes have been linked to chronic pancreatitis. A family history of the disease is linked to an increased risk, especially when combined with other risk factors.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Panic attacks and panic disorder
Home Remedies
While panic attacks and panic disorder benefit from professional treatment, these self-care steps can help you manage symptoms:
Stick to your treatment plan. Facing your fears can be difficult, but treatment can help you feel like you're not a hostage in your own home.
Join a support group. Joining a group for people with panic attacks or anxiety disorders can connect you with others facing the same problems.
Avoid caffeine, alcohol, smoking and recreational drugs. All of these can trigger or worsen panic attacks.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. For example, yoga, deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation — tensing one muscle at a time, and then completely releasing the tension until every muscle in the body is relaxed — also may be helpful.
Get physically active. Aerobic activity may have a calming effect on your mood.
Get sufficient sleep. Get enough sleep so that you don't feel drowsy during the day.
Symptoms=Panic attacks typically begin suddenly, without warning. They can strike at any time — when you're driving a car, at the mall, sound asleep or in the middle of a business meeting. You may have occasional panic attacks, or they may occur frequently.
Panic attacks have many variations, but symptoms usually peak within minutes. You may feel fatigued and worn out after a panic attack subsides.
Panic attacks typically include some of these signs or symptoms:
Sense of impending doom or danger
Fear of loss of control or death
Rapid, pounding heart rate
Sweating
Trembling or shaking
Shortness of breath or tightness in your throat
Chills
Hot flashes
Nausea
Abdominal cramping
Chest pain
Headache
Dizziness, lightheadedness or faintness
Numbness or tingling sensation
Feeling of unreality or detachment
One of the worst things about panic attacks is the intense fear that you'll have another one. You may fear having panic attacks so much that you avoid certain situations where they may occur.
Risk Factors
Symptoms of panic disorder often start in the late teens or early adulthood and affect more women than men.
Factors that may increase the risk of developing panic attacks or panic disorder include:
Family history of panic attacks or panic disorder
Major life stress, such as the death or serious illness of a loved one
A traumatic event, such as sexual assault or a serious accident
Major changes in your life, such as a divorce or the addition of a baby
Smoking or excessive caffeine intake
History of childhood physical or sexual abuse
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent panic attacks or panic disorder. However, these recommendations may help.
Get treatment for panic attacks as soon as possible to help stop them from getting worse or becoming more frequent.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of panic attack symptoms.
Get regular physical activity, which may play a role in protecting against anxiety.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Parkinson's disease
Home Remedies
Some lifestyle changes may help ease your Parkinson's disease symptoms. But certain medicines can make your symptoms worse. Ask your healthcare team which remedies provide the greatest symptom relief with the fewest side effects.
Healthy eating
No foods are proved to treat Parkinson's disease, but some may help ease symptoms. For example, eating foods high in fiber and drinking plenty of fluids can help prevent constipation.
A balanced diet also provides nutrients, such as omega-3 fatty acids, that may help people with Parkinson's disease.
Exercise
Exercising may improve your muscle strength, walking, flexibility and balance. It also may help decrease depression and anxiety.
Ask your healthcare professional to suggest a physical therapist who can help create an exercise program for you. Exercises that may help include walking, swimming, gardening, dancing, water aerobics and stretching.
To improve your balance and gait, try these tips:
Don't move too quickly.
Put down your heel first when walking.
Look straight ahead, not down, when you walk.
Prevent falls
The following tips may help:
Don't rush.
Don't do too many things at once.
Use handrails.
Use night-lights.
Don't use throw rugs or rolling chairs and keep cords out of the way.
Learn new turning and walking techniques, including landing on your heel first. Also, stand tall and look straight ahead rather than down at your feet when you walk. If you start shuffling, stop. Check your posture and make sure you're standing up straight.
Use a walker or cane if your healthcare professional recommends it.
Daily living activities
These healthcare professionals can help with daily tasks:
Occupational therapist. An occupational therapist can show you ways to help with activities such as dressing, bathing and cooking.
Speech therapist. A speech therapist may be able to help with swallowing and speech problems.
Symptoms=Parkinson's disease symptoms can be different for everyone. Early symptoms may be mild, and you may not even notice them. Symptoms often begin on one side of the body, then affect both sides. Symptoms are usually worse on one side than the other. Some Parkinson's disease symptoms are similar to those of other disorders.
Parkinson's symptoms may include:
Tremor. This rhythmic shaking usually begins in the hands or fingers. Sometimes tremor begins in the foot or jaw. You may rub your thumb and forefinger back and forth. This is known as a pill-rolling tremor. Your hand may tremble when it's at rest or when you're under stress. You may notice that you shake less when you're doing some sort of task or moving around.
Slowed movement, also called bradykinesia. Parkinson's disease may slow your movement, making simple tasks more difficult. It may be hard to get out of a chair, shower or get dressed. You may have less expression in your face. It may be hard to blink.
Rigid muscles. You may have stiff muscles in any part of your body. Your muscles may feel tense and painful, and your arm movements may be short and jerky.
Poor posture and balance. Your posture may become stooped. You may fall or have balance problems.
Loss of automatic movements. You may be less able to make certain movements that you typically do without thinking, including blinking, smiling or swinging your arms when you walk.
Speech changes. You may speak softly or quickly, slur, or hesitate before talking. Your speech may be flat or monotone, without typical speech patterns.
Writing changes. You may have trouble writing, and your writing may appear cramped and small.
Nonmotor symptoms. These may include depression, anxiety, constipation and sleep problems. They also may include acting out dreams, needing to urinate often, trouble smelling, problems with thinking and memory, and feeling very tired.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for Parkinson's disease include:
Age. The risk of Parkinson's disease increases with age. Usually, it starts around age 50 or older. The average age of onset is around age 70. Parkinson's disease can occur in younger adults, but it is rare. When people younger than age 50 have the disease, it's known as early-onset Parkinson's disease.
Genetics. Having one or more first-degree relatives, such as parents or siblings, with Parkinson's disease increases your risk. Your risks are still small unless you have many blood relatives with the condition.
Male sex. Men are more likely to develop Parkinson's disease than are women.
Exposure to toxins. Ongoing exposure to herbicides and pesticides may slightly increase your risk of Parkinson's disease.
Prevention
Because the cause of Parkinson's disease is not known, there are no proven ways to prevent it. Research shows that some factors may help protect against it. But scientists don't know for sure. These factors include:
Exercise. Aerobic exercise has been linked to a lower risk of Parkinson's disease.
Caffeine. Some studies show a link between drinking caffeinated beverages such as coffee and green tea and a lower risk of Parkinson's disease.
Medicines. Some medicines, such as ibuprofen and statins, have been linked to a lower risk of the disease.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
Home Remedies
Anyone born with a patent ductus arteriosus needs to take steps to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications. These tips can help:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease and other heart problems. Quitting is the best way to reduce the risk. If you need help quitting, talk to your provider.
Eat healthy foods. Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Practice good hygiene. Regularly wash your hands and brush and floss your teeth to keep yourself healthy.
Ask about sports restrictions. Some people born with a heart problem may need to limit exercise or sports activities. Ask your care provider which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to reduce and manage stress. If you have anxiety or depression, talk to your provider about strategies to help.
Symptoms=Patent ductus arteriosus symptoms (PDA) depend on the size of the opening and the person's age. A small PDA might not cause symptoms. Some people don't notice symptoms until adulthood. A large PDA can cause symptoms of heart failure soon after birth.
A large PDA found during infancy or childhood might cause:
Poor eating, which leads to poor growth.
Sweating with crying or eating.
Persistent fast breathing or breathlessness.
Easy tiring.
Rapid heart rate.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) include:
Premature birth. Patent ductus arteriosus occurs more commonly in babies who are born too early than in babies who are born full term.
Family history and other genetic conditions. A family history of heart problems present at birth may increase the risk for a PDA. Babies born with an extra 21st chromosome, a condition called Down syndrome, also are more likely to have this condition.
German measles during pregnancy. Having German measles, also called rubella, during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Being born at a high altitude. Babies born above 8,200 feet (2,499 meters) have a greater risk of a PDA than babies born at lower altitudes.
Being female. Patent ductus arteriosus is twice as common in girls.
Prevention
There is no known prevention for patent ductus arteriosus. However, it's important to do everything possible to have a healthy pregnancy. Here are some of the basics:
Seek early prenatal care, even before you're pregnant. Quitting smoking, reducing stress, stopping birth control — these are all things to talk to your health care provider about before you get pregnant. Tell your health care provider about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Eat a healthy diet. Include a vitamin supplement that contains folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily before and during pregnancy has been shown to reduce brain and spinal cord problems in the baby. It also may help reduce the risk of heart problems.
Exercise regularly. Work with your health care provider to develop an exercise plan that's right for you.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get recommended vaccines. Update your vaccinations before becoming pregnant. Certain types of infections can be harmful to a developing baby.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar may reduce the risk of certain heart problems before birth.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Peanut allergy
Home Remedies
One of the keys to preventing an allergic reaction is knowing how to avoid the food that causes your symptoms. Follow these steps:
Never assume that a food doesn't contain peanuts. Peanuts may be in foods that surprise you. Always read labels on processed foods to make sure they don't contain peanuts or peanut products. Processed foods are required to clearly state if foods contain any peanuts. Also, labels must state if foods were produced in factories that process peanuts.
Even if you think that you know what's in a food, check the label. Ingredients may change.
Don't ignore a label that says a food was produced in a factory that processes peanuts. Most people with a peanut allergy need to avoid all products that could contain peanuts, even trace amounts.
When in doubt, say "no thanks." At restaurants and social gatherings, there's always a risk of eating peanuts by accident. Many people don't understand how serious an allergic food reaction is. They may not know that a tiny amount of a food can cause a severe reaction. If you are at all worried that a food may contain something you're allergic to, don't try it.
Be prepared for a reaction. Talk with your doctor about carrying emergency medicines in case of a severe reaction.
Avoiding foods that contain peanuts
Peanuts are common. Avoiding foods that contain them can be hard. The following foods often contain peanuts:
Ground or mixed nuts.
Baked goods, such as cookies and pastries.
Ice cream and frozen desserts.
Energy bars.
Cereals and granola.
Grain breads.
Marzipan, a candy made of nuts, egg whites and sugar.
Some foods that may contain peanuts or peanut proteins are less obvious. They might have been made with peanuts or come in contact with them during processing. Some examples include:
Nougat.
Salad dressings.
Chocolate candies, nut butters such as almond butter and sunflower seeds.
Global foods including African, Chinese, Indonesian, Mexican, Thai and Vietnamese dishes.
Foods sold in bakeries and ice cream shops.
Arachis oil, another name for peanut oil.
Pet food.
Symptoms=An allergic response to peanuts usually occurs within minutes after exposure. Peanut allergy signs and symptoms can include:
Skin reactions, such as hives, redness or swelling.
Itching or tingling in or around the mouth and throat.
Digestive problems, such as diarrhea, stomach cramps, nausea or vomiting.
Tightening of the throat.
Shortness of breath or wheezing.
Runny nose.
Anaphylaxis: A life-threatening reaction
Peanut allergy is the most common cause of anaphylaxis due to food. This medical emergency requires treatment with an epinephrine autoinjector (EpiPen, Auvi-Q, others) and a trip to the emergency room. Epinephrine is a kind of adrenaline.
Anaphylaxis signs and symptoms can include:
Constriction of airways.
Swelling of the lips, tongue and throat that makes it hard to breathe.
A severe drop in blood pressure, also known as shock.
Rapid pulse.
Dizziness, lightheadedness or loss of consciousness.
Risk Factors
It isn't clear why some people develop allergies while others don't. However, people with certain risk factors have a greater chance of developing peanut allergy.
Peanut allergy risk factors include:
Age. Food allergies are most common in children, especially toddlers and infants. As a person grows, the digestive system matures. Then the body is less likely to react to food that triggers allergies.
Past allergy to peanuts. Some children with peanut allergy outgrow it, though it can recur. So be cautious even if you seem to have outgrown peanut allergy.
Other allergies. If you're already allergic to one food, you have a higher risk of being allergic to another. Also, having another type of allergy, such as hay fever, raises your risk of having a food allergy.
Family members with allergies. Your risk of peanut allergy is higher if other allergies are common in your family, especially other food allergies.
Atopic dermatitis. Some people with the skin condition atopic dermatitis, also called eczema, have a food allergy as well.
Prevention
Studies have shown a strong link between early peanut exposure and lower food allergy risk. In the studies, peanuts were introduced to high-risk babies and children from 4 months to 3 years old. By doing so, their food allergy risk was reduced up to 80%. Children at risk of peanut allergy include those with mild to severe eczema, egg allergy, or both. Before introducing your child to peanuts, discuss the best approach with your child's healthcare professional.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea
Home Remedies
Avoid airway irritants and allergens. All children — especially those with pediatric obstructive sleep apnea — should be kept away from exposure to tobacco smoke or other indoor allergens or pollutants. They can cause airway irritation and congestion.
Weight loss. If your child is obese, a health care professional may recommend weight loss. The health professional can give you and your child diet and nutrition information or refer your child to specialists in managing obesity.
Symptoms=During sleep, symptoms of pediatric sleep apnea might include:
Snoring.
Pauses in breathing.
Restless sleep.
Snorting, coughing or choking.
Mouth breathing.
Nighttime sweating.
Bed-wetting.
Sleep terrors.
Infants and young children with obstructive sleep apnea don't always snore. They might just have disturbed sleep.
During the day, children with sleep apnea might:
Perform poorly in school.
Have trouble paying attention.
Have learning problems.
Have behavioral problems.
Have poor weight gain.
Be hyperactive.
Risk Factors
Besides obesity, other risk factors for pediatric sleep apnea include having:
Down syndrome.
Birth defects in the skull or face.
Cerebral palsy.
Sickle cell disease.
Neuromuscular disease.
History of low birth weight.
Family history of obstructive sleep apnea.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pelvic organ prolapse
Home Remedies
Pelvic organ prolapse is the result of weakened pelvic floor tissues that make a bulge. There are things you can do to help stop weakness in these tissues. These steps can help keep your condition from getting worse. They also may help keep symptoms from coming back after a surgical repair. Try the following:
Quit smoking.
Treat conditions that might put strain on the pelvic floor, such as long-term cough or constipation.
Lose weight.
Strengthen your core and your pelvic floor.
Don't lift heavy objects.
Don't strain during bowel movements.
Symptoms=Sometimes, pelvic organ prolapse has no symptoms. When symptoms happen, they might include:
Seeing or feeling a bulge of tissue at or beyond the opening of the vagina.
Pelvic pressure, heaviness or pain.
Lower back pain.
Not being able to keep in a tampon.
Urinary changes. These might include urinating more, feeling an urgent need to urinate, not being able to empty the bladder all the way or having a weak urine stream.
Bowel changes, such as not emptying stool all the way or having to put fingers in the vagina to support the bulge to be able to pass stool. This is called splinting.
Sexual issues, such as pain with sex.
Weakness of the pelvic floor often affects more than one area. For instance, if one of your pelvic organs is prolapsed, you're more likely to have another type of pelvic organ prolapse.
Request an appointment

  Get the latest health information from Mayo Clinic delivered to your inbox.
Subscribe for free and receive your in-depth guide to digestive health, plus the latest on health innovations and news. You can unsubscribe at any time. Click here for an email preview.
Email address
Subscribe
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Causes
The cause of pelvic organ prolapse is the weakening of the tissues and the muscles that support the pelvic organs. The most common cause is having a baby vaginally.
Risk factors
Risk factors for pelvic organ prolapse include:
Having more than one baby, vaginal delivery, high birth weight babies and deliveries using tools.
Being older.
Being obese.
Having had pelvic surgery.
Straining from an ongoing cough, such as from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ongoing constipation or ongoing heavy lifting.
Having a family history of pelvic organ prolapse or connective tissue conditions.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Risk factors for pelvic organ prolapse include:
Having more than one baby, vaginal delivery, high birth weight babies and deliveries using tools.
Being older.
Being obese.
Having had pelvic surgery.
Straining from an ongoing cough, such as from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ongoing constipation or ongoing heavy lifting.
Having a family history of pelvic organ prolapse or connective tissue conditions.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pemphigus
Home Remedies
Here are steps you can take to improve your skin and overall health:
Follow your doctor's wound care instructions. Taking good care of your wounds can help prevent infection and scarring. Your doctor may have recommendations for over-the-counter creams that help control pain.
Gently wash your skin. Use mild soap and apply moisturizer afterward.
Protect your skin. Avoid activities that may hurt the skin.
Avoid certain foods. Blisters in your mouth could be triggered or irritated by spicy, hot or abrasive foods.
Minimize sun exposure. Ultraviolet light may trigger new blisters.
Talk with your dentist about maintaining good oral health. If you have blisters in your mouth, it may be difficult to brush your teeth properly. Ask your dentist what you can do to protect your oral health.
Symptoms=Pemphigus causes blisters on your skin and mucous membranes. The blisters rupture easily, leaving open sores, which may ooze and become infected.
The signs and symptoms of two common types of pemphigus are as follows:
Pemphigus vulgaris. This type usually begins with blisters in your mouth and then on your skin or genital mucous membranes. The blisters typically are painful but don't itch. Blisters in your mouth or throat may make it hard to swallow and eat.
Pemphigus foliaceus. This type causes blisters on the chest, back and shoulders. The blisters tend to be more itchy than painful. Pemphigus foliaceus doesn't cause mouth blisters.
Pemphigus is distinct from bullous pemphigoid, which is a blistering skin condition that affects older adults and may cause death.
Risk Factors
Your risk of pemphigus increases if you're middle-aged or older. The condition tends to be more common in people of Middle Eastern or Jewish descent.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Peptic ulcer
Home Remedies
You may find relief from the pain of a stomach ulcer if you:
Switch pain relievers. If you use pain relievers regularly, ask your healthcare professional whether acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) might work for you.
Control stress. Stress may make the symptoms of a peptic ulcer worse. Think about what causes your stress and what you can do to ease it. There are many ways to cope with stress. These include exercise, spending time with friends, deep breathing, writing in a journal or meditating.
Don't smoke. Smoking may harm the lining of the stomach, raising the chance of getting an ulcer. Smoking also increases stomach acid.
Limit or avoid alcohol. Too much alcohol can irritate and eat away the mucous lining in your stomach and intestines. This can cause the lining to inflame and bleed.
Symptoms=Many people with peptic ulcers don't have symptoms. If there are symptoms, they may include:
Dull or burning stomach pain. For some people, pain may be worse between meals and at night. For others, it may be worse after eating.
Feeling of fullness or bloating.
Belching.
Heartburn.
Nausea.
Peptic ulcers can cause bleeding from the ulcer. Then symptoms might include:
Vomiting blood, which may appear red or black.
Having dark blood in stools, or stools that are black or tarry.
Feeling dizzy or fainting.
Risk Factors
If you take NSAIDs, the following factors may increase your risk of peptic ulcers:
Old age. This includes people older than 60.
Prior peptic ulcer. People who have had a peptic ulcer before have a higher risk of having another one.
NSAIDs use. Taking high doses of NSAIDs or two or more NSAIDs increases the risk. So does taking NSAIDS with certain other medicines.
These include other pain relievers, steroids, blood thinners, certain antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medicines to treat the bone-thinning disease osteoporosis. These include alendronate (Fosamax, Binosto) and risedronate (Actonel, Atelvia).
Factors that don't cause peptic ulcers but can make them worse include:
Smoking. This may increase the risk of peptic ulcers in people who are infected with H. pylori.
Drinking alcohol. Alcohol can irritate and erode the mucous lining of the stomach. And it increases stomach acid.
Having untreated stress.
Eating spicy foods.
Prevention
To help prevent peptic ulcers:
Take care with pain relievers. If you often use NSAIDs, which can increase your risk of peptic ulcer, take steps to reduce your risk of stomach problems. For instance, take pain relievers with meals.
Work with your healthcare professional to find the lowest dose that gives you pain relief. Don't drink alcohol with pain relievers. Together, they can increase your risk of stomach upset.
If you need an NSAID, you also may need to take other medicines to help protect your stomach. These include antacids, proton pump inhibitors, acid blockers or cytoprotective agents.
A class of NSAIDs called COX-2 inhibitors may be less likely to cause peptic ulcers. But these medicines may increase the risk of heart attack.
If you smoke, find a way to quit. Quitting smoking can lower your risk of peptic ulcer. Talk with your healthcare professional for help with quitting.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pericarditis
Home Remedies
Lifestyle and home remedies for mild pericarditis include rest and pain medicines sold without a prescription. If your healthcare professional recommends pain medicines, take them as directed.
While you recover, do not take part in strenuous physical activity and competitive sports. Such activity can trigger pericarditis symptoms. Ask your healthcare professional how long you need to rest.
Symptoms=Chest pain is the most common symptom of pericarditis. It usually feels sharp or stabbing. But some people have dull, achy or pressure-like chest pain.
Most often, pericarditis pain is felt behind the breastbone or on the left side of the chest. The pain may:
Spread to the left shoulder and neck, or to both shoulders.
Get worse when coughing, lying down or taking a deep breath.
Get better when sitting up or leaning forward.
Other symptoms of pericarditis can include:
Cough.
Fatigue or general feeling of weakness or being sick.
Swelling of the legs or feet.
Low-grade fever.
Pounding or racing heartbeat, also called heart palpitations.
Shortness of breath when lying down.
Swelling of the belly, also called the abdomen.
The specific symptoms depend on the type of pericarditis. Pericarditis is grouped into different categories, according to the pattern of symptoms and how long symptoms last.
Acute pericarditis begins suddenly but doesn't last longer than four weeks. Future episodes can occur. It may be hard to tell the difference between acute pericarditis and pain due to a heart attack.
Recurrent pericarditis occurs about 4 to 6 weeks after a bout of acute pericarditis. No symptoms happen in between.
Incessant pericarditis lasts about 4 to 6 weeks but less than three months. The symptoms continue over this whole time.
Chronic constrictive pericarditis usually develops slowly and lasts longer than three months.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
There's no specific way to prevent pericarditis. But you can take these steps to prevent infections, which might help lower the risk of heart inflammation:
Stay away from people who have a viral or flu-like illness until they've recovered. If you're sick with symptoms of a viral infection, try not to expose others. For instance, cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough.
Follow good hygiene. Regular hand-washing can help prevent spreading illness. Scrub your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
Get recommended vaccines. Stay up to date on the recommended vaccines, including those that protect against COVID-19, rubella and influenza. These are examples of viral diseases that can cause inflammation of the heart muscle, called myocarditis. Myocarditis and pericarditis can happen together due to a viral infection. Rarely, the COVID-19 vaccine can cause pericarditis and myocarditis, especially in males ages 12 through 17. Talk to your healthcare professional about the benefits and risks of vaccines.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Perimenopause
Home Remedies
Making these healthy lifestyle choices may help ease some symptoms of perimenopause and promote good health as you age:
Ease vaginal discomfort. Use over-the-counter, water-based vaginal lubricants (Astroglide, K-Y Liquid, others) or moisturizers (Replens, Vagisil Prohydrate, others). Choose products that don't contain glycerin, which can cause burning or irritation in women who are sensitive to that chemical. Staying sexually active also helps by increasing blood flow to the vagina.
Eat healthy. Because your risk of osteoporosis and heart disease increases at this time, a healthy diet is more important than ever. Adopt a low-fat, high-fiber diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Add calcium-rich foods. Avoid alcohol and caffeine if they seem to trigger hot flashes. Ask your doctor if you should also take a calcium supplement and if so, what type and how much — also ask if you need more vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium.
Be active. Regular exercise and physical activity helps prevent weight gain, improves your sleep and elevates your mood. Try to exercise for 30 minutes or more on most days of the week, although not right before bedtime. Regular exercise has been shown to reduce hip fracture risk in older women and to strengthen bone density.
Get enough sleep. Try to keep a consistent sleep schedule. Avoid caffeine, which can make it hard to get to sleep, and avoid drinking too much alcohol, which can interrupt sleep.
Practice stress-reduction techniques. Practiced regularly, stress-reduction techniques, such as meditation or yoga, can promote relaxation and good health throughout your lifetime, but they may be particularly helpful during the menopausal transition.
Symptoms=Throughout the menopausal transition, some subtle — and some not-so-subtle — changes in your body may take place. You might experience:
Irregular periods. As ovulation becomes more unpredictable, the length of time between periods may be longer or shorter, your flow may be light to heavy, and you may skip some periods. If you have a persistent change of seven days or more in the length of your menstrual cycle, you may be in early perimenopause. If you have a space of 60 days or more between periods, you're likely in late perimenopause.
Hot flashes and sleep problems. Hot flashes are common during perimenopause. The intensity, length and frequency vary. Sleep problems are often due to hot flashes or night sweats, but sometimes sleep becomes unpredictable even without them.
Mood changes. Mood swings, irritability or increased risk of depression may happen during perimenopause. The cause of these symptoms may be sleep disruption associated with hot flashes. Mood changes may also be caused by factors not related to the hormonal changes of perimenopause.
Vaginal and bladder problems. When estrogen levels diminish, your vaginal tissues may lose lubrication and elasticity, making intercourse painful. Low estrogen may also leave you more vulnerable to urinary or vaginal infections. Loss of tissue tone may contribute to urinary incontinence.
Decreasing fertility. As ovulation becomes irregular, your ability to conceive decreases. However, as long as you're having periods, pregnancy is still possible. If you wish to avoid pregnancy, use birth control until you've had no periods for 12 months.
Changes in sexual function. During perimenopause, sexual arousal and desire may change. But if you had satisfactory sexual intimacy before menopause, this will likely continue through perimenopause and beyond.
Loss of bone. With declining estrogen levels, you start to lose bone more quickly than you replace it, increasing your risk of osteoporosis — a disease that causes fragile bones.
Changing cholesterol levels. Declining estrogen levels may lead to unfavorable changes in your blood cholesterol levels, including an increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol — the "bad" cholesterol — which contributes to an increased risk of heart disease. At the same time, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol — the "good" cholesterol — decreases in many women as they age, which also increases the risk of heart disease.
Risk Factors
Menopause is a normal phase in life. But it may occur earlier in some women than in others. Although not always conclusive, some evidence suggests that certain factors may make it more likely that you start perimenopause at an earlier age, including:
Smoking. The onset of menopause occurs 1 to 2 years earlier in women who smoke than in women who don't smoke.
Family history. Women with a family history of early menopause may experience early menopause themselves.
Cancer treatment. Treatment for cancer with chemotherapy or pelvic radiation therapy has been linked to early menopause.
Hysterectomy. A hysterectomy that removes your uterus, but not your ovaries, usually doesn't cause menopause. Although you no longer have periods, your ovaries still produce estrogen. But such surgery may cause menopause to occur earlier than average. Also, if you have one ovary removed, the remaining ovary might stop working sooner than expected.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Periodontitis
Home Remedies
Try these measures to reduce or prevent periodontitis:
Brush your teeth twice a day or, better yet, after every meal or snack.
Use a soft toothbrush and replace it at least every three months.
Consider using an electric toothbrush, which may be more effective at removing plaque and tartar.
Floss every day. If it's hard to use standard dental floss, try a floss holder. Other options include interdental brushes, water flossers or interdental cleaning aids designed to clean between your teeth. Talk with your dentist or dental hygienist about what would work best for you.
Use a mouth rinse to help reduce plaque between your teeth, if recommended by your dentist.
Get regular professional dental cleanings on a schedule recommended by your dentist.
Don't smoke or chew tobacco.
Symptoms=Healthy gums are firm and fit snugly around teeth. The color of healthy gums can vary. They may range from light pink in some people to dark pink and brown in others.
Symptoms of periodontitis can include:
Swollen or puffy gums.
Bright red, dark red or dark purple gums.
Gums that feel tender when touched.
Gums that bleed easily.
A toothbrush that looks pink after brushing your teeth.
Spitting out blood when brushing or flossing your teeth.
Bad breath that won't go away.
Pus between your teeth and gums.
Loose teeth or loss of teeth.
Painful chewing.
New spaces that develop between your teeth that look like black triangles.
Gums that pull away from your teeth, making your teeth look longer than usual, called receding gums.
A change in the way your teeth fit together when you bite.
When to see a dentist
Follow your dentist's recommended schedule for regular checkups. If you notice any symptoms of periodontitis, make an appointment with your dentist as soon as possible. The sooner you get care, the better your chances of reversing damage from periodontitis.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
In most cases, the development of periodontitis starts with plaque. Plaque is a sticky film mainly made up of bacteria. If not treated, here's how plaque can advance over time to periodontitis:
Plaque forms on your teeth when starches and sugars in food interact with bacteria commonly found in your mouth. Brushing your teeth twice a day and flossing once a day removes plaque, but plaque quickly comes back.
Plaque can harden under your gumline into tartar if it stays on your teeth. Tartar is more difficult to remove. You can't get rid of it by brushing and flossing — you need a professional dental cleaning to remove it. Because plaque and tartar are filled with bacteria, the longer they stay on your teeth, the more damage they can do.
Plaque can cause gingivitis, the mildest form of gum disease. Gingivitis is irritation and swelling of the gum tissue around the base of your teeth. Gingiva is another word for gum tissue. Gingivitis can be reversed with professional treatment and good home oral care, but only if treated early before you have bone loss.
Ongoing gum irritation and swelling, called inflammation, can cause periodontitis. Eventually this causes deep pockets to form between your gums and teeth. These pockets fill with plaque, tartar and bacteria and become deeper over time. If not treated, these deep infections cause a loss of tissue and bone. Eventually you may lose one or more teeth. Also, ongoing inflammation can put a strain on your immune system, causing other health problems.
Risk factors
Factors that can increase your risk of periodontitis include:
Gingivitis.
Poor oral health care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy or menopause.
Recreational drug use, such as smoking marijuana or vaping.
Obesity.
Poor nutrition, including a low vitamin C level.
Genetics.
Certain medicines that cause dry mouth or gum changes.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS and cancer treatment.
Certain diseases, such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease.
Complications
Periodontitis can cause tooth loss. The bacteria that cause periodontitis can enter your bloodstream through gum tissue, possibly affecting other parts of your body. For example, periodontitis is linked with respiratory disease, rheumatoid arthritis, coronary artery disease, preterm birth and low birth weight, and problems controlling blood sugar in diabetes.
Prevention
The best way to prevent periodontitis is to get into the habit of taking good care of your mouth and teeth. Start this routine at a young age and keep it throughout life.
Good oral care. This means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice a day — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Flossing before you brush allows you to clean away the loosened food bits and bacteria. Good oral care keeps your teeth and gums clean and removes the bacteria that cause periodontal disease.
Regular dental visits. See your dentist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of periodontitis include:
Gingivitis.
Poor oral health care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy or menopause.
Recreational drug use, such as smoking marijuana or vaping.
Obesity.
Poor nutrition, including a low vitamin C level.
Genetics.
Certain medicines that cause dry mouth or gum changes.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS and cancer treatment.
Certain diseases, such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease.
Prevention
The best way to prevent periodontitis is to get into the habit of taking good care of your mouth and teeth. Start this routine at a young age and keep it throughout life.
Good oral care. This means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice a day — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Flossing before you brush allows you to clean away the loosened food bits and bacteria. Good oral care keeps your teeth and gums clean and removes the bacteria that cause periodontal disease.
Regular dental visits. See your dentist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Peripheral artery disease (PAD)
Home Remedies
There are things you can do to help manage peripheral artery disease (PAD). Try these tips to manage PAD and stop symptoms from getting worse:
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking damages the arteries. It increases the risk of peripheral artery disease. If you have PAD, smoking can make the condition worse. If you smoke and need help quitting, ask your care team about methods that can help.
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise is an important part of peripheral artery disease (PAD) treatment. Exercise helps improve blood flow to the arms and legs. So it can improve symptoms of PAD.
Usually, healthcare professionals recommend supervised exercise therapy for people with PAD. It's a program of exercise and education. It can help increase the distance you can walk pain-free.
Eat nutritious foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Reduce sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Check medicine labels. Products that contain pseudoephedrine (Advil Cold and Sinus, Claritin D, others) are often used to treat a stuffy nose due to allergies or colds. But this ingredient tightens blood vessels. It may increase PAD symptoms.
Check leg position. Try sleeping with the head of the bed raised a few inches. Keeping the legs below the level of the heart usually reduces pain. Some people find that hanging their legs over the edge of the bed or walking may temporarily reduce leg pain.
Foot care
It's important to take good care of your feet. PAD can make it harder for cuts and sores on the lower legs and feet to heal. This is especially true if you have PAD and diabetes.
Here is how to properly care for your feet:
Wash your feet every day. Dry them completely.
Use moisturizer on the feet to prevent cracks that can lead to infection. But don't moisturize between the toes. This can help fungus grow.
Wear thick, dry socks and well-fitting shoes.
Quickly treat any fungal infections of the feet, such as athlete's foot.
Take care when trimming your toenails.
Check your feet daily for cuts, sores or other injuries. See a healthcare professional if you find any.
Have a foot doctor, called a podiatrist, treat bunions, corns or calluses.
Symptoms=Peripheral artery disease (PAD) may not cause symptoms, or symptoms may be mild. PAD symptoms include:
Leg pain when walking.
Muscle pain or cramping in the arms or legs, often in the calf.
Muscle pain in the arms or legs that begins with exercise and ends with rest.
Painful cramping in one or both of the hips, thighs or calves after walking or climbing stairs or other activities.
Pain when using the arms, such as aching and cramping when knitting or writing.
Coldness in the lower leg or foot, especially when compared with the other side.
Leg numbness or weakness.
No pulse or a weak pulse in the legs or feet.
The muscle pain in peripheral artery disease may:
Be mild to extreme.
Wake you up from sleep.
Make it hard to walk or exercise.
Occur during rest or when lying down if the condition is severe.
Other symptoms of PAD may include:
Shiny skin on the legs.
Skin color changes on the legs.
Slow-growing toenails.
Sores on the toes, feet or legs that won't heal.
Hair loss or slower hair growth on the legs.
Erectile dysfunction.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for peripheral artery disease (PAD) include:
A family history of peripheral artery disease, heart disease or stroke.
Diabetes.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Increasing age, especially after 65, or after 50 if you have risk factors for atherosclerosis.
Obesity.
Smoking.
Prevention
The best way to prevent leg pain due to peripheral artery disease (PAD) is to have a healthy lifestyle. That means:
Don't smoke.
Eat foods that are low in sugar, trans fats and saturated fats.
Get regular exercise — but check with your care team about what type and how much is best for you.
Keep a healthy weight.
Manage blood pressure, cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep.
Control stress.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Peripheral neuropathy
Home Remedies
To help you manage peripheral neuropathy:
Take care of your feet, especially if you have diabetes. Check daily for blisters, cuts or calluses. Wear soft, loose cotton socks and padded shoes. You can use a semicircular hoop, which is available in medical supply stores, to keep bedcovers off hot or sensitive feet.
Exercise. Regular exercise, such as walking three times a week, can lower neuropathy pain, improve muscle strength and help control blood sugar levels. Gentle routines such as yoga and tai chi also might help. If you have painful neuropathy in your feet, you may want to try pool-based exercise such as swimming.
Quit smoking. Cigarette smoking can cause problems with circulation. This increases the risk of foot problems and other neuropathy complications.
Eat healthy meals. Good nutrition is especially important to make sure that you get important vitamins and minerals. Include fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean protein in your diet.
Avoid excessive alcohol. Alcohol can make peripheral neuropathy worse.
Monitor your blood sugar levels. If you have diabetes, this will help keep your blood sugar under control and might help improve your neuropathy.
Symptoms=Every nerve in the peripheral system has a specific job. Symptoms depend on the type of nerves affected. Nerves are divided into:
Sensory nerves that receive sensation, such as temperature, pain, vibration or touch, from the skin.
Motor nerves that control muscle movement.
Autonomic nerves that control functions such as blood pressure, sweating, heart rate, digestion and bladder function.
Symptoms of peripheral neuropathy might include:
Gradual onset of numbness, prickling, or tingling in your feet or hands. These sensations can spread upward into your legs and arms.
Sharp, jabbing, throbbing or burning pain.
Extreme sensitivity to touch.
Pain during activities that shouldn't cause pain, such as pain in your feet when putting weight on them or when they're under a blanket.
Lack of coordination and falling.
Muscle weakness.
Feeling as if you're wearing gloves or socks when you're not.
Inability to move if motor nerves are affected.
If autonomic nerves are affected, symptoms might include:
Heat intolerance.
Excessive sweating or not being able to sweat.
Bowel, bladder or digestive problems.
Drops in blood pressure, causing dizziness or lightheadedness.
Peripheral neuropathy can affect one nerve, called mononeuropathy. If it affects two or more nerves in different areas, it's called multiple mononeuropathy, and if it affects many nerves, it's called polyneuropathy. Carpal tunnel syndrome is an example of mononeuropathy. Most people with peripheral neuropathy have polyneuropathy.
Risk Factors
Peripheral neuropathy risk factors include:
Diabetes, especially if your sugar levels are not controlled well.
Alcohol misuse.
Low levels of vitamins in the body, especially vitamin B-12.
Infections, such as Lyme disease, shingles, hepatitis B and C, and HIV.
Autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, in which the immune system attacks your own tissues.
Kidney, liver or thyroid disorders.
Exposure to toxins.
Repetitive motion, such as those performed for certain jobs.
Family history of neuropathy.
Prevention
Manage underlying conditions
The best way to prevent peripheral neuropathy is to manage medical conditions that put you at risk.
Make healthy lifestyle choices
These habits support your nerve health:
Eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean protein to keep nerves healthy. Protect against low levels of vitamin B-12 by eating meats, fish, eggs, low-fat dairy foods and fortified cereals. If you're vegetarian or vegan, fortified cereals are a good source of vitamin B-12, but talk to your health care professional about B-12 supplements.
Exercise regularly. With a health care professional's OK, try to get at least 30 minutes to one hour of exercise at least three times a week.
Avoid factors that may cause nerve damage. These factors can include repetitive motions, exposure to toxic chemicals, smoking and drinking too much alcohol.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Persistent depressive disorder
Home Remedies
Persistent depressive disorder generally is not a condition that you can treat on your own. But along with professional treatment, these self-care steps can help:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions or appointments. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medicine. Give yourself time to improve gradually.
Learn about persistent depressive disorder. Education about your condition can empower you and motivate you to follow your treatment plan. Encourage your family to learn about the disorder to help them understand and support you.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your health care provider or therapist to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms get worse or return. Contact your health care provider or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Consider involving family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Take care of yourself. Eat a healthy diet, be physically active and get plenty of sleep. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or another activity that you enjoy. Sleeping well is important for both physical and mental well-being. If you're having trouble sleeping, ask your provider what you can do.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. It may seem like alcohol or drugs lessen depression-related symptoms. But over time, they generally worsen depression and make it harder to treat. Talk with your provider or therapist if you need help dealing with alcohol or drug use.
Symptoms=Persistent depressive disorder symptoms usually come and go over a period of years. The intensity of symptoms can change over time. But symptoms usually don't disappear for more than two months at a time. Also, major depression episodes may occur before or during persistent depressive disorder.
Symptoms of persistent depressive disorder can cause major problems in your life and may include:
Sadness, emptiness or feeling down.
Loss of interest in daily activities.
Tiredness and lack of energy.
Low self-esteem, self-criticism or feeling you're not capable.
Trouble focusing clearly and trouble making decisions.
Problems getting things done well and on time.
Quickly becoming annoyed, impatient or angry.
Avoidance of social activities.
Feelings of guilt and worries over the past.
Poor appetite or overeating.
Sleep problems.
Hopelessness.
In children, symptoms of persistent depressive disorder may include depressed mood and being irritable, which means easily becoming annoyed, impatient or angry.
Risk Factors
Persistent depressive disorder often begins early — in childhood, the teen years or young adult life — and continues for a long time. Certain factors appear to increase the risk of developing persistent depressive disorder, including:
Having a first-degree blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with major depressive disorder or other depressive disorders.
Traumatic or stressful life events, such as the loss of a loved one or major financial problems.
Personality traits that include negativity, such as low self-esteem, being too dependent or self-critical, or always thinking the worst will happen.
History of other mental health disorders, such as a personality disorder.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent persistent depressive disorder. Because it often starts in childhood or during the teenage years, identifying children at risk of the condition may help them get early treatment.
Strategies that may help reduce or prevent symptoms include the following:
Take steps to control stress, to increase your ability to recover from problems — which is called resilience — and to boost your self-esteem.
Reach out to family and friends, especially in times of crisis, to help you get through rough spells.
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent symptoms from worsening.
Consider getting long-term treatment to help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Personality disorders
Home Remedies
Along with your treatment plan, it's also important to:
Take part in your care. This can help you manage your personality disorder. Do not skip therapy sessions, even if you do not feel like going. Therapy can take 6 to 12 months. Think about your goals for treatment and work toward achieving them.
Take your medicines as directed. Even if you're feeling well, do not skip your medicines. If you stop, your symptoms may come back. You also could experience withdrawal-like symptoms from stopping a medicine too quickly.
Learn about your condition. Knowing more about your condition can motivate you to follow your treatment plan.
Get active. Physical activity can help manage many symptoms such as depression, stress and anxiety. You can walk, jog, swim or garden — or take up another form of physical activity that you enjoy.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and street drugs can make personality disorder symptoms worse or affect how a medicine works.
Get routine medical care. Do not ignore checkups or skip visits to your doctor, especially if you are not feeling well. You may have a new health concern that needs to be discussed, or you may be feeling the side effects of a medicine.
Symptoms=In some cases, you may not know that you have a personality disorder. That's because how you think and behave seems natural to you. You also may think others are responsible for your challenges.
There are many types of personality disorders, each with important differences. These disorders are organized into three groups, or clusters, with shared features and symptoms:
Group A personality disorders
Group A personality disorders have a consistently dysfunctional pattern of thinking and behavior that reflects suspicion or lack of interest in others. They include:
Paranoid personality disorder
Lacks trust and is suspicious of others and the reasons for their actions.
Believes that others are trying to do harm with no reason to feel this way.
Doubts the loyalty of others.
Is not willing to trust others.
Hesitates to confide in others for fear that others will use that information against them.
Takes innocent remarks or situations that are not threatening as personal insults or attacks.
Becomes angry or hostile to what are believed to be slights or insults.
Has a habit of holding grudges.
Often suspects that a spouse or sexual partner is unfaithful with no reason to feel this way.
Schizoid personality disorder
Appears to be cold to or not interested in others.
Almost always chooses to be alone.
Is limited in how emotions are expressed.
Cannot take pleasure in most activities.
Cannot pick up typical social cues.
Has little to no interest in having sex with another person.
Schizotypal personality disorder
Has unusual thinking, beliefs, speech or behavior.
Feels or thinks strange things, such as hearing a voice whisper their name.
Has flat emotions or emotional responses that are socially unusual.
Has social anxiety, including not being comfortable making close connections with others or not having close relationships.
Responds to others in ways that are not proper or shows suspicion or lack of interest.
Has "magical thinking"— the belief that their thoughts can affect other people and events.
Believes that some casual incidents or events have hidden messages.
Group B personality disorders
Group B personality disorders have a consistently dysfunctional pattern of dramatic, overly emotional thinking or unpredictable behavior. They include:
Borderline personality disorder
Has a strong fear of being alone or abandoned.
Has ongoing feelings of emptiness.
Sees self as being unstable or weak.
Has deep relationships that are not stable.
Has up and down moods, often due to stress when interacting with others.
Threatens self-harm or behaves in ways that could lead to suicide.
Is often very angry.
Shows impulsive and risky behavior, such as having unsafe sex, gambling or binge eating.
Has stress-related paranoia that comes and goes.
Histrionic personality disorder
Always seeks attention.
Is overly emotional or dramatic or stirs up sexual feelings to get attention.
Speaks dramatically with strong opinions but has few facts or details to back them up.
Is easily led by others.
Has shallow emotions that change quickly.
Is very concerned with physical appearance.
Thinks relationships with others are closer than they are.
Narcissistic personality disorder
Has beliefs about being special and more important than others.
Has fantasies about power, success and being attractive to others.
Does not understand the needs and feelings of others.
Stretches the truth about achievements or talents.
Expects constant praise and wants to be admired.
Feels superior to others and brags about it.
Expects favors and advantages without a good reason.
Often takes advantage of others.
Is jealous of others or believes that others are jealous of them.
Antisocial personality disorder
Has little, if any, concern for the needs or feelings of others.
Often lies, steals, uses false names and cons others.
Has repeated run-ins with the law.
Often violates the rights of others.
Is aggressive and often violent.
Has little, if any, concern for personal safety or the safety of others.
Behaves impulsively.
Is often reckless.
Has little, if any, regret for how their behavior negatively affects others.
Group C personality disorders
Group C personality disorders have a consistently dysfunctional pattern of anxious thinking or behavior. They include:
Avoidant personality disorder
Is very sensitive to criticism or rejection.
Does not feel good enough, important or attractive.
Does not take part in work activities that include contact with others.
Is isolated.
Does not try new activities and does not like meeting new people.
Is extremely shy in social settings and in dealing with others.
Fears disapproval, embarrassment or being made fun of.
Dependent personality disorder
Relies on others too much and feels the need to be taken care of.
Is submissive or clingy toward others.
Fears having to take care of self if left alone.
Lacks confidence in abilities.
Needs a lot of advice and comforting from others to make even small decisions.
Finds it hard to start or do projects due to lack of self-confidence.
Finds it hard to disagree with others, fearing they will not approve.
Endures poor treatment or abuse, even when other options are available.
Has an urgent need to start a new relationship when a close one ends.
Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder
Focuses too much on details, orderliness and rules.
Thinks everything needs to be perfect and gets upset when perfection is not achieved.
Cannot finish a project because reaching perfection is not possible.
Needs to be in control of people, tasks and situations.
Cannot assign tasks to others.
Ignores friends and enjoyable activities because of too much focus on work or a project.
Cannot throw away broken or worthless objects.
Is rigid and stubborn.
Is not flexible about morality, ethics or values.
Holds very tight control over budgeting and spending money.
Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder is not the same as obsessive-compulsive disorder, which is an anxiety disorder.
Many people with one type of personality disorder also have symptoms of at least one other type. The number of symptoms a person has may vary.
Risk Factors
Although the specific causes of personality disorders are not known, some factors seem to increase the risk of having one:
Specific personality traits. This includes always trying to stay away from harm, or the opposite — a strong need to seek out new activities that get the adrenaline pumping. It also includes poor impulse control.
Early life experiences. This includes a home environment that is not stable, predictable or supportive. It also includes a history of trauma — physical neglect or abuse, emotional neglect or abuse, or sexual abuse.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Phenylketonuria (PKU)
Home Remedies
Strategies to help manage PKU include keeping track of foods eaten, measuring correctly, and being creative. Like anything, the more these strategies are practiced, the greater the comfort and confidence you can develop.
Keep track and measure correctly
If you or your child is following a low-phenylalanine diet, you'll need to keep records of the food eaten every day.
To be as accurate as possible, measure food portions using standard measuring cups and spoons and a kitchen scale that reads in grams. The food amounts are compared with a food list or are used to calculate the amount of phenylalanine eaten every day. Each meal and snack includes the appropriately divided portion of your daily PKU formula.
Food diaries, computer programs and smartphone apps are available that list the amount of phenylalanine in baby foods, solid foods, PKU formulas, and common baking and cooking ingredients.
Meal planning or meal rotations of known foods may help reduce some of the daily tracking.
Be creative
Talk with your dietitian to find out how you can be creative with foods to help you stay on track. For example, use seasonings and a variety of cooking methods to transform lower phenylalanine vegetables into a whole menu of different dishes. Herbs and flavorings low in phenylalanine can have lots of flavor. Just remember to measure and count every ingredient and adjust recipes to your specific diet.
If you have any other health conditions, you may also need to consider those when you plan your diet. Talk with your health care provider or dietitian if you have any questions.
Symptoms=Newborns with PKU initially don't have any symptoms. However, without treatment, babies usually develop signs of PKU within a few months.
Signs and symptoms of untreated PKU can be mild or severe and may include:
A musty odor in the breath, skin or urine, caused by too much phenylalanine in the body
Nervous system (neurological) problems that may include seizures
Skin rashes, such as eczema
Lighter skin, hair and eye color than family members, because phenylalanine can't transform into melanin — the pigment responsible for hair and skin tone
Unusually small head size (microcephaly)
Hyperactivity
Intellectual disability
Delayed development
Behavioral, emotional and social problems
Mental health disorders
Severity varies
The severity of PKU depends on the type.
Classic PKU. The most severe form of the disorder is called classic PKU. The enzyme needed to break down phenylalanine is missing or severely reduced. This results in high levels of phenylalanine that can cause severe brain damage.
Less severe forms of PKU. In mild or moderate forms, the enzyme still has some function, so phenylalanine levels are not as high, resulting in a smaller risk of significant brain damage.
Regardless of the form, most infants, children and adults with the disorder still require a special PKU diet to prevent intellectual disability and other complications.
Pregnancy and PKU
Women who have PKU and become pregnant are at risk of another form of the condition called maternal PKU. If women don't follow the special PKU diet before and during pregnancy, blood phenylalanine levels can become high and harm the developing baby.
Even women with less severe forms of PKU may place their unborn children at risk by not following the PKU diet.
Babies born to women with high phenylalanine levels don't often inherit PKU. But a child can have serious problems if the level of phenylalanine is high in the mother's blood during pregnancy. At birth, the baby may have:
Low birth weight
Unusually small head
Problems with the heart
In addition, maternal PKU can cause the child to have delayed development, intellectual disability and problems with behavior.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for inheriting PKU include:
Having both parents with a gene change that causes PKU. Two parents must pass along a copy of the changed gene for their child to develop the condition.
Being of a certain racial or ethnic descent. PKU affects people from most ethnic backgrounds worldwide. But in the United States, it's most common in people of European ancestry and much less common in people of African ancestry.
Prevention
If you have PKU and are considering getting pregnant:
Follow a low-phenylalanine diet. Women with PKU can prevent harm to their developing baby by sticking to or returning to a low-phenylalanine diet before becoming pregnant. Nutritional supplements designed for people with PKU can ensure enough protein and nutrition during pregnancy. If you have PKU, talk to your health care provider before you start trying to conceive.
Consider genetic counseling. If you have PKU, a close relative with PKU or a child with PKU, you may benefit from genetic counseling before becoming pregnant. A specialist in medical genetics (geneticist) can help you better understand how PKU is passed through your family. The specialist can also help determine your risk of having a child with PKU and assist with family planning.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pink eye (conjunctivitis)
Home Remedies
To help you cope with the symptoms of pink eye until it goes away, try to:
Apply a compress to your eyes. To make a compress, soak a clean, lint-free cloth in water and wring it out before applying it gently to your closed eyelids. Generally, a cool water compress will feel the most soothing, but you also can use a warm compress if that feels better to you. If pink eye affects only one eye, don't touch both eyes with the same cloth. This reduces the risk of spreading pink eye from one eye to the other.
Try eye drops. Nonprescription eye drops called artificial tears may relieve symptoms. Some eyedrops contain antihistamines or other medicines that can be helpful for people with allergic conjunctivitis.
Stop wearing contact lenses. If you wear contact lenses, you may need to stop wearing them until your eyes feel better. How long you'll need to go without contact lenses depends on what's causing your conjunctivitis. Ask your health care provider whether you should throw away your disposable contacts, as well as your cleaning solution and lens case. If your lenses aren't disposable, clean them thoroughly before reusing them.
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: What parents need to know about pink eye
Symptoms=The most common pink eye symptoms include:
Redness in one or both eyes.
Itchiness in one or both eyes.
A gritty feeling in one or both eyes.
A discharge in one or both eyes that forms a crust during the night that may prevent your eye or eyes from opening in the morning.
Tearing.
Sensitivity to light, called photophobia.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for pink eye include:
Exposure to someone infected with the viral or bacterial form of conjunctivitis.
Exposure to something you're allergic to, for allergic conjunctivitis.
Using contact lenses, especially extended-wear lenses.
Prevention
Preventing the spread of pink eye
Practice good hygiene to control the spread of pink eye. For instance:
Don't touch your eyes with your hands.
Wash your hands often.
Use a clean towel and washcloth daily.
Don't share towels or washcloths.
Change your pillowcases often.
Throw away old eye cosmetics, such as mascara.
Don't share eye cosmetics or personal eye care items.
Keep in mind that pink eye is no more contagious than the common cold. It's okay to return to work, school or child care if you're able to practice good hygiene and avoid close contact. However, if work, school or child care involves close contact with others it may be best to stay home until you or your child's symptoms clear up.
Preventing pink eye in newborns
Newborns' eyes are susceptible to bacteria present in the mother's birth canal. These bacteria often cause no symptoms in the mother. In some cases, these bacteria can cause infants to develop a serious form of conjunctivitis known as ophthalmia neonatorum, which needs immediate treatment to preserve sight. That's why shortly after birth, an antibiotic ointment is applied to every newborn's eyes. The ointment helps prevent eye infection.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2024/03/28/18/33/pink-eye-4252444-8col-001.jpg
Condition
Plantar fasciitis
Home Remedies
To reduce the pain of plantar fasciitis, try these self-care tips:
Maintain a healthy weight. Extra weight can put extra stress on your plantar fascia.
Choose supportive shoes. Buy shoes with a low to moderate heel, thick soles, good arch support and extra cushioning. Don't wear flats or walk barefoot.
Don't wear worn-out athletic shoes. Replace your old athletic shoes before they stop supporting and cushioning your feet.
Change your sport. Try a low-impact sport, such as swimming or bicycling, instead of walking or jogging.
Apply ice. Hold a cloth-covered ice pack over the area of pain for 15 minutes three or four times a day to help reduce pain and swelling. Or try rolling a frozen bottle of water under your foot for an ice massage.
Stretch your arches. Simple home exercises can stretch your plantar fascia, Achilles tendon and calf muscles.
Symptoms=Plantar fasciitis typically causes a stabbing pain in the bottom of your foot near the heel. The pain is usually the worst with the first few steps after awakening, although it also can be triggered by long periods of standing or when you get up from sitting.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
The plantar fascia is a band of tissue, called fascia, that connects your heel bone to the base of your toes. It supports the arch of the foot and absorbs shock when walking.
Tension and stress on the fascia can cause small tears. Repeated stretching and tearing of the facia can irritate or inflame it, although the cause remains unclear in many cases of plantar fasciitis.
Risk factors
Even though plantar fasciitis can develop without an obvious cause, some factors can increase your risk of developing this condition. They include:
Age. Plantar fasciitis is most common in people between the ages of 40 and 60.
Certain types of exercise. Activities that place a lot of stress on your heel and attached tissue — such as long-distance running, ballet dancing and aerobic dance — can contribute to the onset of plantar fasciitis.
Foot mechanics. Flat feet, a high arch or even an atypical pattern of walking can affect the way weight is distributed when you're standing and can put added stress on the plantar fascia.
Obesity. Excess pounds put extra stress on your plantar fascia.
Occupations that keep you on your feet. Factory workers, teachers and others who spend most of their work hours walking or standing on hard surfaces can be at increased risk of plantar fasciitis.
Complications
Ignoring plantar fasciitis can result in chronic heel pain that hinders your regular activities. You're likely to change your walk to try to avoid plantar fasciitis pain, which might lead to foot, knee, hip or back problems.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Even though plantar fasciitis can develop without an obvious cause, some factors can increase your risk of developing this condition. They include:
Age. Plantar fasciitis is most common in people between the ages of 40 and 60.
Certain types of exercise. Activities that place a lot of stress on your heel and attached tissue — such as long-distance running, ballet dancing and aerobic dance — can contribute to the onset of plantar fasciitis.
Foot mechanics. Flat feet, a high arch or even an atypical pattern of walking can affect the way weight is distributed when you're standing and can put added stress on the plantar fascia.
Obesity. Excess pounds put extra stress on your plantar fascia.
Occupations that keep you on your feet. Factory workers, teachers and others who spend most of their work hours walking or standing on hard surfaces can be at increased risk of plantar fasciitis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Plantar warts
Home Remedies
Many people have removed warts with these self-care tips:
Peeling medicine (salicylic acid). Nonprescription wart removal products are sold as a patch, gel or liquid. You'll likely be instructed to wash the site, soak it in warm water, and gently remove the top layer of softened skin with a pumice stone or emery board. Then after the skin has dried, you apply the solution or patch. Patches are often changed every 24 to 48 hours. Liquid products are used daily. It might take weeks to remove the wart using this method.
Freezing medicine (cryotherapy). Nonprescription medicines that freeze the wart include Compound W Freeze Off and Dr. Scholl's Freeze Away. The Food and Drug Administration cautions that some wart removers are flammable and shouldn't be used around fire, flame, heat sources (such as curling irons) and lit cigarettes.
Duct tape. Using duct tape to remove warts is a harmless but unproven approach. To try it, cover the wart with silver duct tape, changing it every few days. Between applications, soak the wart and gently remove dead tissue with a pumice stone or emery board. Then leave the wart open to the air to dry for a few hours before covering it with tape again.
In general, no matter which treatment you try, do these two things:
Cover the wart to help prevent it from spreading to other parts of the body or to other people.
Wash your hands after touching the wart.
If a plantar wart goes away after treatment and another wart grows, it could be because the area was exposed again to HPV.
Symptoms=Plantar wart signs and symptoms include:
A small, rough growth on the bottom of your foot, usually at the base of the toes or on the ball or heel
On brown and Black skin, the growth may be lighter than unaffected skin
Hard, thickened skin (callus) over a spot on the skin, where a wart has grown inward
Black pinpoints, which are small clotted blood vessels commonly called wart seeds
A cluster of growths on the sole of the foot (mosaic warts)
A growth that interrupts the normal lines and ridges in the skin of your foot
Pain or tenderness when walking or standing
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop plantar warts, but this type of wart is more likely to affect:
Children and teenagers
People with weak immune systems
People who have had plantar warts before
People who walk barefoot in areas where a wart-causing virus is common, such as locker rooms and swimming pools
Prevention
To help prevent plantar warts:
Avoid direct contact with warts. This includes your own warts. Wash your hands carefully after touching a wart.
Keep your feet clean and dry.
Wear sandals or other foot protection when walking around swimming pools, in locker rooms or in gym showers.
Don't pick at or scratch warts.
When using an emery board, pumice stone or nail clipper on your warts, choose one that you don't use on your healthy skin and nails.

By Mayo Clinic Staff
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/43/ds00509_-ds00906_im03165_r7_plantar_wartsthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Pleurisy
Home Remedies
These steps might help relieve symptoms related to pleurisy:
Take medication. Take medication as recommended by your healthcare provider to relieve pain and inflammation.
Get plenty of rest. Find the position that causes you the least discomfort when you rest. Even when you start to feel better, be careful not to overdo it.
Don't smoke. Smoking can cause more irritation to your lungs. If you smoke and can't quit on your own, ask your healthcare provider for help.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of pleurisy might include:
Chest pain that worsens when you breathe, cough or sneeze.
Shortness of breath — often from trying to limit breathing in and out.
Cough — only in some cases.
Fever — only in some cases.
Pain caused by pleurisy might worsen with movement of your upper body and can spread to your shoulders or back.
Pleurisy can occur along with pleural effusion, atelectasis or empyema:
Pleural effusion. In some cases of pleurisy, fluid builds up in the small space between the two layers of tissue. This is called pleural effusion. When there is a fair amount of fluid, pleuritic pain lessens or disappears because the two layers of pleura are no longer in contact and don't rub together.
Atelectasis. A large amount of fluid in the pleural space can create pressure. This can compress your lung to the point that it partially or completely collapses (atelectasis). This makes breathing difficult and might cause coughing.
Empyema. The extra fluid in the pleural space can also become infected, resulting in a buildup of pus. This is called an empyema. Fever often occurs along with an empyema.
Risk Factors
The risk of pleurisy increases if you get certain infections, such as the flu or pneumonia. Some medical conditions, such as lupus, TB and sickle cell disease also can increase your risk. And taking certain medicines or certain recreational drugs raise the risk of pleurisy.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pneumonia
Home Remedies
These tips can help you recover more quickly and decrease your risk of complications:
Get plenty of rest. Don't go back to school or work until after your temperature returns to normal and you stop coughing up mucus. Even when you start to feel better, be careful not to overdo it. Because pneumonia can recur, it's better not to jump back into your routine until you are fully recovered. Ask your doctor if you're not sure.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of fluids, especially water, to help loosen mucus in your lungs.
Take your medicine as prescribed. Take the entire course of any medications your doctor prescribed for you. If you stop taking medication too soon, your lungs may continue to harbor bacteria that can multiply and cause your pneumonia to recur.
Symptoms=The signs and symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe, depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection, and your age and overall health. Mild signs and symptoms often are similar to those of a cold or flu, but they last longer.
Signs and symptoms of pneumonia may include:
Chest pain when you breathe or cough
Confusion or changes in mental awareness (in adults age 65 and older)
Cough, which may produce phlegm
Fatigue
Fever, sweating and shaking chills
Lower than normal body temperature (in adults older than age 65 and people with weak immune systems)
Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea
Shortness of breath
Newborns and infants may not show any sign of the infection. Or they may vomit, have a fever and cough, appear restless or tired and without energy, or have difficulty breathing and eating.
When to see a doctor
See your doctor if you have difficulty breathing, chest pain, persistent fever of 102 F (39 C) or higher, or persistent cough, especially if you're coughing up pus.
It's especially important that people in these high-risk groups see a doctor:
Adults older than age 65
Children younger than age 2 with signs and symptoms
People with an underlying health condition or weakened immune system
People receiving chemotherapy or taking medication that suppresses the immune system
For some older adults and people with heart failure or chronic lung problems, pneumonia can quickly become a life-threatening condition.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Many germs can cause pneumonia. The most common are bacteria and viruses in the air we breathe. Your body usually prevents these germs from infecting your lungs. But sometimes these germs can overpower your immune system, even if your health is generally good.
Pneumonia is classified according to the types of germs that cause it and where you got the infection.
Community-acquired pneumonia
Community-acquired pneumonia is the most common type of pneumonia. It occurs outside of hospitals or other health care facilities. It may be caused by:
Bacteria. The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia in the U.S. is Streptococcus pneumoniae. This type of pneumonia can occur on its own or after you've had a cold or the flu. It may affect one part (lobe) of the lung, a condition called lobar pneumonia.
Bacteria-like organisms. Mycoplasma pneumoniae also can cause pneumonia. It typically produces milder symptoms than do other types of pneumonia. Walking pneumonia is an informal name given to this type of pneumonia, which typically isn't severe enough to require bed rest.
Fungi. This type of pneumonia is most common in people with chronic health problems or weakened immune systems, and in people who have inhaled large doses of the organisms. The fungi that cause it can be found in soil or bird droppings and vary depending upon geographic location.
Viruses, including COVID-19. Some of the viruses that cause colds and the flu can cause pneumonia. Viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children younger than 5 years. Viral pneumonia is usually mild. But in some cases it can become very serious. Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) may cause pneumonia, which can become severe.
Hospital-acquired pneumonia
Some people catch pneumonia during a hospital stay for another illness. Hospital-acquired pneumonia can be serious because the bacteria causing it may be more resistant to antibiotics and because the people who get it are already sick. People who are on breathing machines (ventilators), often used in intensive care units, are at higher risk of this type of pneumonia.
Health care-acquired pneumonia
Health care-acquired pneumonia is a bacterial infection that occurs in people who live in long-term care facilities or who receive care in outpatient clinics, including kidney dialysis centers. Like hospital-acquired pneumonia, health care-acquired pneumonia can be caused by bacteria that are more resistant to antibiotics.
Aspiration pneumonia
Aspiration pneumonia occurs when you inhale food, drink, vomit or saliva into your lungs. Aspiration is more likely if something disturbs your normal gag reflex, such as a brain injury or swallowing problem, or excessive use of alcohol or drugs.
Risk factors
Pneumonia can affect anyone. But the two age groups at highest risk are:
Children who are 2 years old or younger
People who are age 65 or older
Other risk factors include:
Being hospitalized. You're at greater risk of pneumonia if you're in a hospital intensive care unit, especially if you're on a machine that helps you breathe (a ventilator).
Chronic disease. You're more likely to get pneumonia if you have asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or heart disease.
Smoking. Smoking damages your body's natural defenses against the bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia.
Weakened or suppressed immune system. People who have HIV/AIDS, who've had an organ transplant, or who receive chemotherapy or long-term steroids are at risk.
Complications
Even with treatment, some people with pneumonia, especially those in high-risk groups, may experience complications, including:
Bacteria in the bloodstream (bacteremia). Bacteria that enter the bloodstream from your lungs can spread the infection to other organs, potentially causing organ failure.
Difficulty breathing. If your pneumonia is severe or you have chronic underlying lung diseases, you may have trouble breathing in enough oxygen. You may need to be hospitalized and use a breathing machine (ventilator) while your lung heals.
Fluid accumulation around the lungs (pleural effusion). Pneumonia may cause fluid to build up in the thin space between layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity (pleura). If the fluid becomes infected, you may need to have it drained through a chest tube or removed with surgery.
Lung abscess. An abscess occurs if pus forms in a cavity in the lung. An abscess is usually treated with antibiotics. Sometimes, surgery or drainage with a long needle or tube placed into the abscess is needed to remove the pus.
Prevention
To help prevent pneumonia:
Get vaccinated. Vaccines are available to prevent some types of pneumonia and the flu. Talk with your doctor about getting these shots. The vaccination guidelines have changed over time so make sure to review your vaccination status with your doctor even if you recall previously receiving a pneumonia vaccine.
Make sure children get vaccinated. Doctors recommend a different pneumonia vaccine for children younger than age 2 and for children ages 2 to 5 years who are at particular risk of pneumococcal disease. Children who attend a group child care center should also get the vaccine. Doctors also recommend flu shots for children older than 6 months.
Practice good hygiene. To protect yourself against respiratory infections that sometimes lead to pneumonia, wash your hands regularly or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Don't smoke. Smoking damages your lungs' natural defenses against respiratory infections.
Keep your immune system strong. Get enough sleep, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Pneumonia can affect anyone. But the two age groups at highest risk are:
Children who are 2 years old or younger
People who are age 65 or older
Other risk factors include:
Being hospitalized. You're at greater risk of pneumonia if you're in a hospital intensive care unit, especially if you're on a machine that helps you breathe (a ventilator).
Chronic disease. You're more likely to get pneumonia if you have asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or heart disease.
Smoking. Smoking damages your body's natural defenses against the bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia.
Weakened or suppressed immune system. People who have HIV/AIDS, who've had an organ transplant, or who receive chemotherapy or long-term steroids are at risk.
Prevention
To help prevent pneumonia:
Get vaccinated. Vaccines are available to prevent some types of pneumonia and the flu. Talk with your doctor about getting these shots. The vaccination guidelines have changed over time so make sure to review your vaccination status with your doctor even if you recall previously receiving a pneumonia vaccine.
Make sure children get vaccinated. Doctors recommend a different pneumonia vaccine for children younger than age 2 and for children ages 2 to 5 years who are at particular risk of pneumococcal disease. Children who attend a group child care center should also get the vaccine. Doctors also recommend flu shots for children older than 6 months.
Practice good hygiene. To protect yourself against respiratory infections that sometimes lead to pneumonia, wash your hands regularly or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Don't smoke. Smoking damages your lungs' natural defenses against respiratory infections.
Keep your immune system strong. Get enough sleep, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pneumonitis
Home Remedies
A diagnosis of pneumonitis may mean that you'll have to make changes to your lifestyle to protect your health. You'll need to avoid known triggers as much as possible.
Don't smoke. Smoking can make lung damage worse. If you need help quitting, talk to your healthcare professional.
If your job duties expose you to substances that irritate your lungs, talk to your healthcare professional and supervisor at work about ways to protect yourself. If a hobby is causing the problem, you may have to find a different hobby.
Symptoms=Symptoms of pneumonitis may develop quickly or slowly and can worsen over time. At times symptoms may suddenly get worse or better. Also, symptoms vary greatly among people with the condition and include:
Trouble breathing.
Dry cough that usually doesn't bring up any mucus.
Extreme tiredness.
Loss of appetite.
Fever.
Joint and muscle pain.
Headache.
Weight loss.
When to call a doctor
Talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional if you notice symptoms such as trouble catching your breath or an ongoing dry cough.
If you have trouble breathing, go to the emergency department at a hospital right away or, in the U.S., call 911.
Request an appointment

Causes
Bronchioles and alveoli in the lungs
Enlarge image
Pneumonitis happens when an irritating substance causes inflammation in the tiny air sacs called alveoli in your lungs. Inflamed lung tissue makes it hard for oxygen to pass through the alveoli into the bloodstream.
Many causes have been linked to pneumonitis. But it's not clear why some people have a strong immune system response to certain substances that cause pneumonitis, while others do not. For many people, the specific substance causing the inflammation is never identified.
Some types of pneumonitis include hypersensitivity pneumonitis, drug-induced pneumonitis and radiation-induced pneumonitis.
Hypersensitivity pneumonitis
For some people, breathing in airborne particles triggers a strong allergic reaction by their immune system. This reaction irritates the lungs, causing pneumonitis. The condition also is called extrinsic allergic alveolitis.
Specific types of hypersensitivity pneumonitis have nicknames related to their cause, such as "farmer's lung," "bird-fancier's lung" or "hot tub lung."
Causes can include:
Molds. Repeated exposure to molds can cause inflamed lung tissue. Breathing in airborne bits from moldy hay is one of the most common causes of work-related pneumonitis. Moldy conditions in hot tubs also can cause pneumonitis because the bubbling action makes a mist containing mold. It's common for mold to grow in home humidifiers that aren't cleaned often. Other examples of humid places where mold can grow and be released into the air include air conditioners, swimming pools, water-damaged carpet and ventilations systems.
Birds. Exposure to bird feathers, dust or droppings is a common cause of pneumonitis.
Dust. Exposure to dust from metal work or hardwoods can cause pneumonitis.
Chemicals. Aerosolized mists, chemicals and pesticides can irritate lungs and cause pneumonitis.
Animal fur. Skin cells, fur and droppings from animals are another cause of pneumonitis. This may happen when working closely with cattle and in veterinary practices.
Drug-induced pneumonitis
Many medicines can cause pneumonitis. But the exact reason why certain medicines cause inflamed lung tissue isn't clear. It's possible that some medicines may irritate lung cells, and then the immune system has a strong response that causes inflammation.
Examples of medicines that may cause pneumonitis include certain antibiotics, many medicines used to treat cancer and some medicines that keep your heartbeat regular.
Radiation-induced pneumonitis
Some people who have radiation therapy to the chest, such as for breast or lung cancer, may get pneumonitis. Pneumonitis also can happen after whole-body radiation therapy that's done to prepare a person for a bone marrow transplant. Symptoms usually appear in the first few months after radiation treatment is finished.
Risk factors
Environment
Some factors cause a higher risk of pneumonitis, including:
Jobs and hobbies. Farming raises exposure to mold particles that can be breathed in during harvests of grain and hay. Another risk factor is a job where workers are around fine mists, fumes, dust and chemicals. Woodworking may raise your risk too.
Bird and animal handling. Poultry workers and people who breed or keep pigeons and other birds often are exposed to droppings, feathers and other materials that can cause pneumonitis. Being around a lot of animals also may raise your risk.
Using hot tubs and humidifiers. Moldy conditions in hot tubs, home humidifiers that aren't cleaned often and anywhere else mold can grow are risk factors for pneumonitis.
Cancer treatment
Some medicines used to treat cancer can cause pneumonitis. So can radiation therapy to the lungs and chest. The combination of the two raises the risk of pneumonitis even more.
Genes
Genes may play a role in having an extra strong immune response to substances. If you have family members who have a strong allergic reaction to substances, you may have a higher risk of an allergic reaction as well.
Complications
If pneumonitis is not detected or not treated, you may gradually develop lung damage that can't be reversed.
In healthy lungs, the air sacs stretch and relax with each breath. Ongoing inflammation of the thin tissue lining each air sac causes scarring and makes the air sacs less flexible. They become stiff like a dried sponge. This is called pulmonary fibrosis. In severe cases, pulmonary fibrosis can cause high blood pressure in the lungs, right-sided heart failure, respiratory failure or death.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Environment
Some factors cause a higher risk of pneumonitis, including:
Jobs and hobbies. Farming raises exposure to mold particles that can be breathed in during harvests of grain and hay. Another risk factor is a job where workers are around fine mists, fumes, dust and chemicals. Woodworking may raise your risk too.
Bird and animal handling. Poultry workers and people who breed or keep pigeons and other birds often are exposed to droppings, feathers and other materials that can cause pneumonitis. Being around a lot of animals also may raise your risk.
Using hot tubs and humidifiers. Moldy conditions in hot tubs, home humidifiers that aren't cleaned often and anywhere else mold can grow are risk factors for pneumonitis.
Cancer treatment
Some medicines used to treat cancer can cause pneumonitis. So can radiation therapy to the lungs and chest. The combination of the two raises the risk of pneumonitis even more.
Genes
Genes may play a role in having an extra strong immune response to substances. If you have family members who have a strong allergic reaction to substances, you may have a higher risk of an allergic reaction as well.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Poison ivy rash
Home Remedies
A poison ivy rash will eventually go away on its own. But the itching can be hard to deal with and make it difficult to sleep. If you scratch your blisters, they may become infected. Here are some steps you can take to help control the itching:
Apply an over-the-counter cortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10) for the first few days.
Apply calamine lotion or creams containing menthol.
Take oral antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), which may also help you sleep better. An over-the-counter antihistamine that won't make you so drowsy is loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Soak the affected area in a cool-water bath that has about a half cup (100 grams) of baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno) in it.
Place cool, wet compresses on the affected area for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day.
Mayo Clinic Minute: How to treat poison ivy rash
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: How to treat poison ivy rash
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of a poison ivy rash include:
Redness
Itching
Swelling
Blisters
Difficulty breathing, if you've inhaled the smoke from burning poison ivy
Poison ivy rash often appears in a straight line because of the way the plant brushes against your skin. But if you develop a rash after touching a piece of clothing or pet fur that has urushiol on it, the rash may be more spread out. You can also transfer the oil to other parts of your body with your fingers. The reaction usually develops 12 to 48 hours after exposure and lasts two to three weeks.
The severity of the rash depends on the amount of urushiol that gets on your skin.
Risk Factors
Your risk of a rash is increased if you participate in outdoor activities that put you at higher risk of exposure to poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac:
Cable or telephone line installation
Camping
Construction
Farming
Firefighting
Fishing from the shoreline
Forestry
Gardening
Hiking
Hunting
Landscaping
Prevention
To prevent poison ivy rash, follow these tips:
Avoid the plants. Learn how to identify poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac in all seasons. When hiking or engaging in other activities that might expose you to these plants, try to stay on cleared pathways. Wear socks, pants and long sleeves when outdoors. If camping, make sure you pitch your tent in an area free of these plants.
Keep pets from running through wooded areas so that urushiol doesn't stick to their fur, which you then may touch.
Wear protective clothing. If needed, protect your skin by wearing socks, boots, pants, long sleeves and heavy gloves.
Remove or kill the plants. Identify and remove poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac from your yard or garden. You can get rid of such plants by applying an herbicide or pulling them out of the ground, including the roots, while wearing heavy gloves. Afterward remove the gloves carefully and wash them and your hands. Don't burn poison ivy or related plants because the urushiol can be carried by the smoke.
Wash your skin or your pet's fur. Within 30 minutes after exposure to urushiol, use soap and water to gently wash off the harmful resin from your skin. Scrub under your fingernails too. Even washing after an hour or so can help reduce the severity of the rash.
If you think your pet may be contaminated with urushiol, put on some long rubber gloves and give your pet a bath.
Clean contaminated objects. If you think you've come into contact with poison ivy, wash your clothing promptly in warm soapy water — ideally in a washing machine. Handle contaminated clothing carefully so that you don't transfer the urushiol to yourself, furniture, rugs or appliances.
Also wash as soon as possible any other items that came in contact with the plant oil — such as outdoor gear, garden tools, jewelry, shoes and even shoelaces. Urushiol can remain potent for years. So if you put away a contaminated jacket without washing it and take it out a year later, the oil on the jacket may still cause a rash.
Apply a barrier cream. Try over-the-counter skin products that are intended to act as a barrier between your skin and the oily resin that causes poison ivy rash.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Home Remedies
To help ease the effects of PCOS, try to:
Stay at a healthy weight. Weight loss can lower insulin and androgen levels. It also may restore ovulation. Ask your health care provider about a weight-control program, if you need one. Meet with a registered dietitian for help in reaching weight-loss goals.
Limit carbohydrates. High-carbohydrate diets might make insulin levels go higher. Ask your provider if a low-carbohydrate diet could help if you have PCOS. Choose complex carbohydrates, which raise your blood sugar levels more slowly. Complex carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and cooked dry beans and peas.
Be active. Exercise helps lower blood sugar levels. If you have PCOS, increasing your daily activity and getting regular exercise may treat or even prevent insulin resistance. Being active may also help you keep your weight under control and avoid developing diabetes.
Symptoms=Symptoms of PCOS often start around the time of the first menstrual period. Sometimes symptoms develop later after you have had periods for a while.
The symptoms of PCOS vary. A diagnosis of PCOS is made when you have at least two of these:
Irregular periods. Having few menstrual periods or having periods that aren't regular are common signs of PCOS. So is having periods that last for many days or longer than is typical for a period. For example, you might have fewer than nine periods a year. And those periods may occur more than 35 days apart. You may have trouble getting pregnant.
Too much androgen. High levels of the hormone androgen may result in excess facial and body hair. This is called hirsutism. Sometimes, severe acne and male-pattern baldness can happen, too.
Polycystic ovaries. Your ovaries might be bigger. Many follicles containing immature eggs may develop around the edge of the ovary. The ovaries might not work the way they should.
PCOS signs and symptoms are typically more severe in people with obesity.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Porphyria
Home Remedies
If you have porphyria:
Learn what could trigger symptoms. Talk to your health care provider about the type of porphyria you have. Learn about possible symptom triggers and how to avoid them.
Inform your health care providers. Tell all your providers that you have porphyria. This is important because sometimes treatments, medicines, illness or surgery can trigger porphyria symptoms.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. Have information about your condition placed on a medical alert bracelet or necklace. Always wear it.
Symptoms=Symptoms can vary widely by type of porphyria and in how severe the symptoms are. Symptoms also can vary among people with the condition. Some people with a gene change that causes porphyria never have any symptoms.
Acute porphyrias
Acute porphyrias include forms of the disease that usually cause nervous system symptoms. A few forms also can affect the skin. Symptoms appear quickly and can be severe. Symptoms may last hours, days or weeks.
The most common form of acute porphyria is called acute intermittent porphyria (AIP). AIP may last hours or days. Intermittent means that the symptoms may go away but return later. When the symptoms occur they are sometimes called attacks.
Symptoms of acute porphyrias may include:
Severe pain in the belly, chest, legs or back.
Digestive problems, such as constipation, nausea and vomiting.
Muscle pain, tingling, numbness, weakness or paralysis.
Red or brown urine.
Mental changes, such as anxiety, hallucinations or mental confusion.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats you can feel, called palpitations.
Breathing problems.
High blood pressure.
Seizures.
Cutaneous porphyrias
Cutaneous porphyrias include forms of the disease that cause skin symptoms as a result of sensitivity to sunlight. These forms usually don't affect the nervous system. Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT) is the most common type of all the porphyrias.
Sun exposure may cause:
Sensitivity to the sun and sometimes artificial light, causing burning pain in the skin.
Sudden painful skin redness and swelling.
Blisters on exposed skin, usually the hands, arms and face.
Fragile thin skin with changes in skin color.
Itching.
Too much hair growth in affected areas.
Red or brown urine.
Erythropoietic protoporphyria (uh-rith-roe-poi-ET-ik pro-toe-por-FEAR-e-uh), also called EPP, is a rare type of cutaneous porphyria. It's the most common childhood porphyria. Sun or artificial light exposure quickly results in painful skin burning, irritation and swelling. Small bumps and blisters also appear. Repeated exposures can cause thick, leathery skin and scarring.
Risk Factors
In addition to genetic risk factors, environmental risk factors may trigger symptoms in porphyria. When exposed to the trigger, the body's demand for heme production increases. This overwhelms the low level of a needed enzyme, setting in motion a process that causes a buildup of porphyrins.
Examples of triggers include:
Exposure to sunlight.
Certain medicines, for example, birth control pills, sedatives and barbiturates.
Recreational or illicit drugs.
Dieting or fasting.
Smoking.
Physical stress, such as infections or other illnesses or surgery.
Emotional stress.
Alcohol use.
Hormone changes during the menstrual period.
Prevention
Although there's no way to prevent porphyria, if you have the condition, avoid triggers to help prevent symptoms.
Because porphyria is usually an inherited disorder, your siblings and other family members may want to consider genetic testing to determine if they have the condition. Genetic counseling is important to help understand test results and risks.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele)
Home Remedies
Sometimes, self-care measures provide relief from prolapse symptoms. You could try to:
Perform Kegel exercises to strengthen pelvic muscles
Avoid constipation by eating high-fiber foods, drinking plenty of fluids and, if needed, taking a fiber supplement
Avoid bearing down during bowel movements
Avoid heavy lifting
Control coughing
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises strengthen pelvic floor muscles. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for pelvic organs. It also might relieve bulge symptoms that posterior vaginal prolapse can cause.
To perform Kegel exercises:
Find the right muscles. To find your pelvic floor muscles, try stopping urine midstream when you use the toilet. Once you know where these muscles are, you can practice these exercises. You can do the exercises in any position, although you might find it easiest to do them lying down at first.
Perfect your technique. To do Kegels, imagine you are sitting on a marble and tighten your pelvic muscles as if you're lifting the marble. Try it for three seconds at a time, then relax for a count of three.
Maintain your focus. For best results, focus on tightening only your pelvic floor muscles. Be careful not to flex the muscles in your abdomen, thighs or buttocks. Avoid holding your breath. Instead, breathe freely during the exercises.
Repeat three times a day. Aim for at least three sets of 10 to 15 repetitions a day.
Kegel exercises may be most successful when they're taught by a physical therapist or nurse practitioner and reinforced with biofeedback. Biofeedback uses monitoring devices to let you know that you're tightening the right set of muscles in the right way.
Symptoms=A small posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele) might cause no symptoms.
Otherwise, you may notice:
A soft bulge of tissue in the vagina that might come through the opening of the vagina
Trouble having a bowel movement
Feeling pressure or fullness in the rectum
A feeling that the rectum has not completely emptied after a bowel movement
Sexual concerns, such as feeling embarrassed or sensing looseness in the tone of the vaginal tissue
Many women with posterior vaginal prolapse also have prolapse of other pelvic organs, such as the bladder or uterus. A surgeon can evaluate the prolapse and talk about options for surgery to fix it.
Risk Factors
Anyone with a vagina can develop posterior vaginal prolapse. However, the following might increase the risk:
Genetics. Some people are born with weaker connective tissues in the pelvic area. This makes them naturally more likely to develop posterior vaginal prolapse.
Childbirth. Having vaginally delivered more than one child increases the risk of developing posterior vaginal prolapse. Tears in the tissue between the vaginal opening and anus (perineal tears) or cuts that make the opening of the vagina bigger (episiotomies) during childbirth might also increase risk. Operative vaginal deliveries, and forceps specifically, increase the risk of developing this condition.
Aging. Growing older causes loss of muscle mass, elasticity and nerve function, which causes muscles to stretch or weaken.
Obesity. Extra body weight places stress on pelvic floor tissues.
Prevention
To help keep posterior vaginal prolapse from getting worse, you might try to:
Perform Kegel exercises regularly. These exercises can strengthen pelvic floor muscles. This is especially important after having a baby.
Treat and prevent constipation. Drink plenty of fluids and eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, beans and whole-grain cereals.
Avoid heavy lifting and lift correctly. Use your legs instead of your waist or back to lift.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis, and don't smoke.
Avoid weight gain. Ask your health care provider to help you determine the best weight for you. Ask for advice on how to lose weight, if needed.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
To help keep posterior vaginal prolapse from getting worse, you might try to:
Perform Kegel exercises regularly. These exercises can strengthen pelvic floor muscles. This is especially important after having a baby.
Treat and prevent constipation. Drink plenty of fluids and eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, beans and whole-grain cereals.
Avoid heavy lifting and lift correctly. Use your legs instead of your waist or back to lift.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis, and don't smoke.
Avoid weight gain. Ask your health care provider to help you determine the best weight for you. Ask for advice on how to lose weight, if needed.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Postherpetic neuralgia
Home Remedies
An over-the-counter medicine called capsaicin cream may ease the pain of postherpetic neuralgia. It's made from the seeds of hot chili peppers. Capsaicin (Capzasin-P, Zostrix, others) can cause a burning feeling and may bother your skin. These side effects usually fade over time. But you should use only a small amount when you first try it to make sure you don't have bad side effects.
Try not to get capsaicin cream on parts of your body that don't have symptoms. Follow all the instructions that come with the cream. Wear gloves when you put it on, and wash your hands afterward.
Symptoms=In general, the symptoms of postherpetic neuralgia are limited to the area of skin where the shingles outbreak first happened. That's commonly in a band around the trunk of the body, most often on one side.
The symptoms might include:
Pain that lasts three months or longer after the shingles rash has healed. The pain may feel burning, sharp and jabbing. Or it may feel deep and aching.
Not being able to stand light touch. People with postherpetic neuralgia often can't bear even the touch of clothing on the affected skin.
Itching or loss of feeling. Less often, postherpetic neuralgia can cause an itchy feeling or numbness.
Risk Factors
With shingles, things that can raise the risk of postherpetic neuralgia are:
Age. You're older than 60.
How bad the case of shingles was. You had a severe rash and pain that kept you from doing daily activities.
Other illness. You have a long-term disease, such as diabetes.
Where shingles appeared. You had shingles on your face or torso.
A delay in shingles treatment. You didn't start taking antiviral medicine within 72 hours of your rash appearing.
No shingles vaccine. You had not been vaccinated for shingles.
Prevention
Shingles vaccines can help prevent shingles and postherpetic neuralgia. Ask your health care provider when you should get a vaccine.
In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggests that adults 50 and older get a shingles vaccine called Shingrix. The agency also suggests Shingrix for adults 19 and older who have weaker immune systems because of diseases or treatments. Shingrix is suggested even if you've already had shingles or the older vaccine, Zostavax. Shingrix is given in two doses, 2 to 6 months apart.
With two doses, Shingrix is more than 90% effective in preventing shingles and postherpetic neuralgia. Other shingles vaccines are offered outside of the United States. Talk to your provider for more information on how well they prevent shingles and postherpetic neuralgia.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Postpartum depression
Home Remedies
In addition to professional treatment, you can do some things for yourself that build on your treatment plan and help speed recovery.
Make healthy lifestyle choices. Include physical activity, such as a walk with your baby, and other forms of exercise in your daily routine. Try to get enough rest. Eat healthy foods and avoid alcohol.
Set realistic expectations. Don't pressure yourself to do everything. Scale back your expectations for the perfect household. Do what you can and leave the rest.
Make time for yourself. Take some time for yourself and get out of the house. That may mean asking a partner to take care of the baby or arranging for a sitter. Do something you enjoy, such as a hobby or some form of entertainment. You might also schedule some time alone with your partner or friends.
Avoid isolation. Talk with your partner, family and friends about how you're feeling. Ask other mothers about their experiences. Breaking the isolation may help you feel human again.
Ask for help. Try to open up to the people close to you and let them know you need help. If someone offers to babysit, take them up on it. If you can sleep, take a nap, or maybe you can see a movie or meet for coffee with friends. You may also benefit from asking for help with parenting skills that can include caregiving techniques to improve your baby's sleep and soothe fussing and crying.
Remember, taking care of your baby includes taking care of yourself.
Symptoms=Symptoms of depression after childbirth vary, and they can range from mild to severe.
Baby blues symptoms
Symptoms of baby blues — which last only a few days to a week or two after your baby is born — may include:
Mood swings
Anxiety
Sadness
Irritability
Feeling overwhelmed
Crying
Reduced concentration
Appetite problems
Trouble sleeping
Postpartum depression symptoms
Postpartum depression may be mistaken for baby blues at first — but the symptoms are more intense and last longer. These may eventually interfere with your ability to care for your baby and handle other daily tasks. Symptoms usually develop within the first few weeks after giving birth. But they may begin earlier — during pregnancy — or later — up to a year after birth.
Postpartum depression symptoms may include:
Depressed mood or severe mood swings
Crying too much
Difficulty bonding with your baby
Withdrawing from family and friends
Loss of appetite or eating much more than usual
Inability to sleep, called insomnia, or sleeping too much
Overwhelming tiredness or loss of energy
Less interest and pleasure in activities you used to enjoy
Intense irritability and anger
Fear that you're not a good mother
Hopelessness
Feelings of worthlessness, shame, guilt or inadequacy
Reduced ability to think clearly, concentrate or make decisions
Restlessness
Severe anxiety and panic attacks
Thoughts of harming yourself or your baby
Recurring thoughts of death or suicide
Untreated, postpartum depression may last for many months or longer.
Postpartum psychosis
With postpartum psychosis — a rare condition that usually develops within the first week after delivery — the symptoms are severe. Symptoms may include:
Feeling confused and lost
Having obsessive thoughts about your baby
Hallucinating and having delusions
Having sleep problems
Having too much energy and feeling upset
Feeling paranoid
Making attempts to harm yourself or your baby
Postpartum psychosis may lead to life-threatening thoughts or behaviors and requires immediate treatment.
Postpartum depression in the other parent
Studies show that new fathers can experience postpartum depression, too. They may feel sad, tired, overwhelmed, anxious, or have changes in their usual eating and sleeping patterns. These are the same symptoms that mothers with postpartum depression experience.
Fathers who are young, have a history of depression, experience relationship problems or are struggling financially are most at risk of postpartum depression. Postpartum depression in fathers — sometimes called paternal postpartum depression — can have the same negative effect on partner relationships and child development as postpartum depression in mothers can.
If you're a partner of a new mother and are having symptoms of depression or anxiety during your partner's pregnancy or after your child's birth, talk to your health care provider. Similar treatments and supports provided to mothers with postpartum depression can help treat postpartum depression in the other parent.
Risk Factors
Any new mom can experience postpartum depression and it can develop after the birth of any child, not just the first. However, your risk increases if:
You have a history of depression, either during pregnancy or at other times.
You have bipolar disorder.
You had postpartum depression after a previous pregnancy.
You have family members who've had depression or other mood disorders.
You've experienced stressful events during the past year, such as pregnancy complications, illness or job loss.
Your baby has health problems or other special needs.
You have twins, triplets or other multiple births.
You have difficulty breastfeeding.
You're having problems in your relationship with your spouse or partner.
You have a weak support system.
You have financial problems.
The pregnancy was unplanned or unwanted.
Prevention
If you have a history of depression — especially postpartum depression — tell your health care provider if you're planning on becoming pregnant or as soon as you find out you're pregnant.
During pregnancy, your provider can monitor you closely for symptoms of depression. You may complete a depression-screening questionnaire during your pregnancy and after delivery. Sometimes mild depression can be managed with support groups, counseling or other therapies. In other cases, antidepressants may be recommended — even during pregnancy.
After your baby is born, your provider may recommend an early postpartum checkup to screen for symptoms of postpartum depression. The earlier it's found, the earlier treatment can begin. If you have a history of postpartum depression, your provider may recommend antidepressant treatment or talk therapy immediately after delivery. Most antidepressants are safe to take while breastfeeding.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Prader-Willi syndrome
Home Remedies
Tips to help you take care of your loved one with Prader-Willi syndrome include the following:
Learn about Prader-Willi syndrome. Managing hormone levels and weight can improve development and behavior and prevent complications. Work with your health care team to develop a plan of care for managing symptoms and addressing issues.
Stick to a strict meal plan. Eating a low-calorie diet is essential to keep your child from becoming overweight. Structure mealtime and the type of food to help develop routines and to help your child understand expectations. Use small dishes for serving meals. To help prevent binging, avoid buying high-calorie snacks. Store food out of your child's reach. Lock pantries, refrigerators and cupboards.
Encourage regular daily activity. Increasing physical activity and exercise can help manage weight and improve physical functioning.
Set limits. Create a firm schedule and set expectations for managing behavior. If needed, talk to your health care team about ways to address problems.
Schedule regular medical care. Talk with your doctor about a regular schedule of health appointments and tests to check for problems or complications related to Prader-Willi syndrome.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of Prader-Willi syndrome can vary among individuals. Symptoms may slowly change over time from childhood to adulthood.
Infants
Signs and symptoms that may be present from birth include:
Poor muscle tone. A primary sign during infancy is poor muscle tone (hypotonia). Babies may rest with their elbows and knees loosely extended instead of fixed, and they may feel floppy or like rag dolls when they're held.
Distinct facial features. Children may be born with almond-shaped eyes, a narrowing of the head at the temples, a turned-down mouth and a thin upper lip.
Poor sucking reflex. Infants may have a poor sucking reflex due to decreased muscle tone. Poor sucking makes feeding difficult and can result in failure to thrive.
Generally poor responsiveness. A baby may seem unusually tired, respond poorly to stimulation, have a hard time waking up or have a weak cry.
Underdeveloped genitals. Males may have a small penis and scrotum. The testicles may be small or not descended from the abdomen into the scrotum (cryptorchidism). In females, the clitoris and labia may be small.
Early childhood to adulthood
Other features of Prader-Willi syndrome appear during early childhood and remain throughout life, requiring careful management. These features may include:
Food craving and weight gain. A classic sign of Prader-Willi syndrome is a constant craving for food, resulting in rapid weight gain, starting around age 2 years. Constant hunger leads to eating often and consuming large portions. Unusual food-seeking behaviors, such as hoarding food, or eating frozen food or even garbage, may develop.
Underdeveloped sex organs. A condition called hypogonadism occurs when sex organs (testes in men and ovaries in women) produce little or no sex hormones. This results in underdeveloped sex organs, incomplete or delayed puberty, and in nearly all cases, infertility. Without treatment, women may not start menstruating until their 30s or may never menstruate, and men may not have much facial hair and their voices may never fully deepen.
Poor growth and physical development. Underproduction of growth hormone can result in short adult height, low muscle mass and high body fat. Other endocrine problems may include underproduction of thyroid hormone (hypothyroidism) or central adrenal insufficiency, which prevents the body from responding appropriately during stress or infections.
Cognitive impairment. Mild to moderate intellectual disability, such as issues with thinking, reasoning and problem-solving, is a common feature of the disorder. Even those without significant intellectual disability have some learning disabilities.
Delayed motor development. Toddlers with Prader-Willi syndrome often reach milestones in physical movement — for example, sitting up or walking — later than other children do.
Speech problems. Speech is often delayed. Poor articulation of words may be an ongoing problem into adulthood.
Behavioral problems. Children and adults may at times be stubborn, angry, controlling or manipulative. They may throw temper tantrums, especially when denied food, and may not tolerate changes in routine. They may also develop obsessive-compulsive or repetitive behaviors, or both. Other mental health disorders, such as anxiety and skin picking, may develop.
Sleep disorders. Children and adults with Prader-Willi syndrome may have sleep disorders, including disruptions of the normal sleep cycle and a condition in which breathing pauses during sleep (sleep apnea). These disorders can result in excessive daytime sleepiness and worsen behavior problems.
Other signs and symptoms. These may include small hands and feet, curvature of the spine (scoliosis), hip problems, reduced saliva flow, nearsightedness and other vision problems, problems regulating body temperature, a high pain tolerance, or a lack of pigment (hypopigmentation) causing hair, eyes and skin to be pale.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
If you have a child with Prader-Willi syndrome and would like to have another baby, consider seeking genetic counseling. A genetic counselor may help determine your risk of having another child with Prader-Willi syndrome.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Premature birth
Home Remedies
The thought of bringing your baby home from the hospital might make you feel relieved, excited and nervous. You can do some things ahead of time to prepare for life at home:
Understand how to care for your baby. Before you leave the hospital, take a course in infant CPR. This can save the lives of babies who stop breathing. Ask your baby's medical team any questions you might have, and take notes.
Make sure you're comfortable caring for your baby. This is very important if you'll need to use health monitors or give your infant medicines, oxygen or other treatments. Ask what symptoms to call your baby's health care provider about, such as breathing or feeding problems.
Discuss feedings. Ask the medical team about your baby's need for extra nutrition. The team might suggest that you use products such as breast milk fortifier supplements or preterm infant formula. Keep in mind that premature babies often eat less and may need to be fed more often than full-term babies. Find out how much and how often your baby should eat.
Limit contact with other people. Premature babies are more likely to get serious illnesses than are other newborns. Try to keep your baby away from crowded places as much as you can. And make sure everyone who comes into contact with your baby washes their hands first. Ask people who are ill to put off their visit until they are well.
Protect your baby from RSV. Premature babies have a higher risk of getting a serious illness called RSV infection. This disease is caused by a virus. It affects the lungs and other organs involved in breathing.
There are a few options to protect premature babies from severe RSV infection. One is an RSV vaccine for pregnant people that helps protect babies from birth through 6 months of age. The other is an antibody product given to the infant. This product is called nirsevimab (Beyfortus). Rarely, when nirsevimab is not available or a child is not eligible for it, another antibody product called palivizumab may be given.
Follow a suggested schedule for checkups. Discuss your baby's need for future health checkups with your baby's care provider and any specialists. At first, your baby may need to see a primary care provider every week or two. That way the baby's growth, health needs and care can be watched closely.
Get your baby vaccinated. Vaccines help protect people from dangerous diseases. It's suggested that vaccines be given to premature babies who are in stable health based on their age. Your baby's care team may talk to you about a schedule for when your baby should receive each vaccine. Delays in this schedule are common. Work with your baby's care provider to make sure your baby gets every vaccine on the schedule.
Also make sure that other family members in your home are up to date on their vaccines, including shots for the flu and COVID-19. Family members and adult caregivers also should check with their health care providers to find out if they're up to date on their pertussis vaccine for whooping cough. If you're pregnant, make sure you're up to date on this vaccine too.
Note any delays in development. Over the coming months, your baby's care provider may watch for any signs that the baby is taking longer than usual to reach key milestones. Babies who are at risk of such delays or disabilities may need more tests. You may be referred to services and support systems that can help, called early intervention services. The rules that determine who gets to use these services vary based on where you live.
Symptoms=Your baby may have very mild symptoms of premature birth or more-serious health problems.
Some signs of being born too early include:
Small size, with a head that's large compared with the body.
Features that are sharper and less rounded than a full-term baby's features due to a lack of cells that store fat.
Fine hair that covers much of the body.
Low body temperature, mainly right after birth in the delivery room.
Trouble breathing.
Feeding problems.
The following tables show the median birth weight, length and head circumference of premature babies at different gestational ages for each sex.
Weight, length and head circumference by gestational age for boys
Gestational age Weight Length Head circumference
40 weeks 7 lbs., 15 oz.
(3.6 kg) 20 in. (51 cm) 13.8 in. (35 cm)
35 weeks 5 lbs., 8 oz.
(2.5 kg) 18.1 in. (46 cm) 12.6 in. (32 cm)
32 weeks 3 lbs., 15.5 oz.
(1.8 kg) 16.5 in. (42 cm) 11.6 in. (29.5 cm)
28 weeks 2 lbs., 6.8 oz.
(1.1 kg) 14.4 in. (36.5 cm) 10.2 in. (26 cm)
24 weeks 1 lb., 6.9 oz.
(0.65 kg) 12.2 in. (31 cm) 8.7 in. (22 cm)
Weight, length and head circumference by gestational age for girls
Gestational age Weight Length Head circumference
40 weeks 7 lbs., 7.9 oz.
(3.4 kg) 20 in. (51 cm) 13.8 in. (35 cm)
35 weeks 5 lbs., 4.7 oz.
(2.4 kg) 17.7 in. (45 cm) 12.4 in. (31.5 cm)
32 weeks 3 lbs., 12 oz.
(1.7 kg) 16.5 in. (42 cm) 11.4 in. (29 cm)
28 weeks 2 lbs., 3.3 oz.
(1.0 kg) 14.1 in. (36 cm) 9.8 in. (25 cm)
24 weeks 1 lb., 5.2 oz.
(0.60 kg) 12.6 in. (32 cm) 8.3 in. (21 cm)
Special care
If you give birth to a preterm baby, your baby will likely need to stay in a special nursery unit at the hospital. Some infants need to spend time in a unit that cares for them and closely tracks their health day and night. This is called a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU).
A step down from the NICU is an intermediate care nursery, which provides less intensive care. Special nursery units are staffed with health care providers and a team that's trained to help preterm babies.
Your baby may need extra help feeding and adapting right after delivery. Your health care team can help you understand what's needed and what your baby's care plan will be. Feel free to ask them questions.
Request an appointment

Risk factors
Often, the exact cause of premature birth isn't clear. But certain things can raise the risk.
Some risk factors linked to past and present pregnancies include:
Pregnancy with twins, triplets or other multiples.
A span of less than six months between pregnancies. It's ideal to wait 18 to 24 months between pregnancies.
Treatments to help you get pregnant, called assisted reproduction, including in vitro fertilization.
More than one miscarriage or abortion.
A previous premature birth.
Some health problems can raise the risk of premature birth, such as:
Problems with the uterus, cervix or placenta.
Some infections, mainly those of the amniotic fluid and lower genital tract.
Ongoing health problems such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
Injuries or trauma to the body.
Lifestyle choices also can raise the risk of a preterm pregnancy, such as:
Smoking cigarettes, taking illicit drugs or drinking alcohol often or heavily while pregnant.
Being underweight or overweight before pregnancy.
Becoming pregnant before the age of 17 or after 35.
Going through stressful life events, such as the death of a loved one or domestic violence.
For unknown reasons, Black and Native people in the United States are more likely to have premature births than are women of other races. But premature birth can happen to anyone. In fact, many preterm births have no known risk factors.
Complications
Not all premature babies have health complications. But being born too early can cause short-term and long-term medical problems. In general, the earlier a baby is born, the higher the risk of complications. Birth weight plays a key role too.
Some problems may be clear at birth. Others may not show up until later.
Short-term complications
In the first weeks, the complications of premature birth may include:
Breathing problems. A premature baby may have trouble breathing due to being born with lungs that aren't fully developed. If the baby's lungs lack a substance that allows the lungs to expand, the baby may have trouble getting enough air. This is a treatable problem called respiratory distress syndrome.
It's common for preterm babies to have pauses in their breathing called apnea. Most infants outgrow apnea by the time they go home from the hospital. Some premature babies get a less common lung disorder called bronchopulmonary dysplasia. They need oxygen for a few weeks or months, but they often outgrow this problem.
Heart problems. Some common heart problems that premature babies have are patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) and low blood pressure. PDA is an opening between two important blood vessels, the aorta and the pulmonary artery. This heart defect often closes on its own. But without treatment it can lead to problems such as heart failure. That's when the heart can't pump blood as well as it should. Low blood pressure may need to be treated with fluids given through a vein, medicines and sometimes blood transfusions.
Brain problems. The earlier a baby is born, the greater the risk of bleeding in the brain. This is called an intraventricular hemorrhage. Most hemorrhages are mild and resolve with little short-term impact. But some babies may have larger brain bleeding that causes permanent brain injury.
Temperature control problems. Premature babies can lose body heat quickly. They don't have the stored body fat of a full-term infant. And they can't make enough heat to counter what's lost through the surface of their bodies. If body temperature drops too low, it can lead to a dangerous problem called hypothermia.
Hypothermia in a premature baby can lead to breathing problems and low blood sugar levels. A preterm infant also may use up all of the energy gained from feedings just to stay warm. That's why smaller premature babies need extra heat from a warmer or an incubator at first.
Digestive problems. Premature infants are more likely to have digestive systems that aren't fully developed. This can lead to problems such as necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). With NEC, the cells lining the bowel wall are injured. This problem can happen in premature babies after they start feeding. Premature babies who receive only breast milk have a much lower risk of getting NEC.
Blood problems. Premature babies are at risk of blood problems such as anemia and newborn jaundice. With anemia, the body doesn't have enough red blood cells. All newborns have a slow drop in red blood cell count during the first months of life. But that drop may be greater in premature babies. With newborn jaundice, the skin and eyes look yellow. It happens because the baby's blood contains too much of a yellow-colored substance from the liver or red blood cells. This substance is called bilirubin. Jaundice has many causes, but it is more common in preterm babies.
Metabolism problems. Premature babies often have problems with metabolism. That's the process by which the body changes food and drink into energy. Some premature babies may have a very low level of blood sugar. This can happen because premature infants often have smaller amounts of stored blood sugar than do full-term babies. Premature babies also have more trouble turning their stored sugar into more-usable, active forms of blood sugar.
Immune system problems. It's common for premature babies to have immune systems that aren't fully developed. This can lead to a higher risk of illnesses. An infection in a premature baby can quickly spread to the bloodstream and cause a life-threatening problem called sepsis.
Long-term complications
Over the long term, premature birth may lead to health problems such as:
Cerebral palsy. This group of disorders can cause problems with movement, muscle tone or posture. It can be due to an infection or poor blood flow. It also can stem from an injury to a newborn's brain, either early during pregnancy or while the baby is still young.
Trouble learning. Premature babies are more likely to lag behind full-term babies on different milestones. A school-age child who was born too early might be more likely to have learning disabilities.
Vision problems. Premature infants may get an eye disease called retinopathy of prematurity. This happens when blood vessels swell and grow too much in the light-sensing tissue at the back of the eye, called the retina. Sometimes these overgrown vessels slowly scar the retina and pull it out of place. When the retina is pulled away from the back of the eye, it's called retinal detachment. Without treatment, this can harm vision and cause blindness.
Hearing problems. Premature babies have a higher risk of losing some hearing. All babies should have their hearing checked before they go home from the hospital.
Dental problems. Preterm babies may be more likely than full-term babies to have defects with the hard outer covering of the teeth, called enamel. Infants born very or extremely early also may be more likely to have teeth that take longer to develop.
Behavior and mental health problems. Children who were born early may be more likely than kids born full term to have certain mental health troubles, as well as delays in development.
Ongoing health issues. Premature babies are more likely to have long-term health issues than are full-term infants. Illnesses, asthma and feeding problems are more likely to develop or linger. Premature infants also are at higher risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). That's when an infant dies for unclear reasons, often while asleep.
Prevention
The exact cause of preterm birth is often unknown. But some things can be done to help lower the risk of preterm birth, including:
Taking progesterone supplements. Progesterone is a hormone that plays a role in pregnancy. A lab-made version of it may be able to lower the risk of preterm birth if you've had a premature baby before. It also may lower the risk of preterm birth if you have a short cervix. The cervix is the lower end of the uterus, which opens during labor so a baby can be born.
Cervical cerclage. This is a surgery that's done during pregnancy. Your provider may suggest it if you have a short cervix and you've had a preterm birth before.
During this procedure, the cervix is stitched closed with a strong suture. This may give the uterus extra support. The suture is removed when it's time to have the baby. Ask your provider if you need to stay away from vigorous activity during the rest of your pregnancy.
One thing that doesn't help prevent preterm birth is staying in bed. Bed rest can raise the risk of blood clots, weaker bones and less muscle strength. It might even make preterm birth more likely.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Often, the exact cause of premature birth isn't clear. But certain things can raise the risk.
Some risk factors linked to past and present pregnancies include:
Pregnancy with twins, triplets or other multiples.
A span of less than six months between pregnancies. It's ideal to wait 18 to 24 months between pregnancies.
Treatments to help you get pregnant, called assisted reproduction, including in vitro fertilization.
More than one miscarriage or abortion.
A previous premature birth.
Some health problems can raise the risk of premature birth, such as:
Problems with the uterus, cervix or placenta.
Some infections, mainly those of the amniotic fluid and lower genital tract.
Ongoing health problems such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
Injuries or trauma to the body.
Lifestyle choices also can raise the risk of a preterm pregnancy, such as:
Smoking cigarettes, taking illicit drugs or drinking alcohol often or heavily while pregnant.
Being underweight or overweight before pregnancy.
Becoming pregnant before the age of 17 or after 35.
Going through stressful life events, such as the death of a loved one or domestic violence.
For unknown reasons, Black and Native people in the United States are more likely to have premature births than are women of other races. But premature birth can happen to anyone. In fact, many preterm births have no known risk factors.
Prevention
The exact cause of preterm birth is often unknown. But some things can be done to help lower the risk of preterm birth, including:
Taking progesterone supplements. Progesterone is a hormone that plays a role in pregnancy. A lab-made version of it may be able to lower the risk of preterm birth if you've had a premature baby before. It also may lower the risk of preterm birth if you have a short cervix. The cervix is the lower end of the uterus, which opens during labor so a baby can be born.
Cervical cerclage. This is a surgery that's done during pregnancy. Your provider may suggest it if you have a short cervix and you've had a preterm birth before.
During this procedure, the cervix is stitched closed with a strong suture. This may give the uterus extra support. The suture is removed when it's time to have the baby. Ask your provider if you need to stay away from vigorous activity during the rest of your pregnancy.
One thing that doesn't help prevent preterm birth is staying in bed. Bed rest can raise the risk of blood clots, weaker bones and less muscle strength. It might even make preterm birth more likely.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Presbyopia
Home Remedies
You can't prevent presbyopia. You can help protect your eyes and your vision by following these tips:
Have your eyes checked. Do this regularly even if you see well.
Control chronic health conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes and high blood pressure, can affect your vision if you don't receive proper treatment.
Protect your eyes from the sun. Wear glasses or sunglasses that block ultraviolet (UV) radiation. This is especially important if you spend long hours in the sun or are taking a prescription medication that increases your sensitivity to UV radiation.
Prevent eye injuries. Wear protective eyewear when doing certain things, such as playing sports, mowing the lawn, or painting or using other products with toxic fumes. Nonprescription reading glasses generally don't provide safety protection.
Eat healthy foods. Try to eat plenty of fruits, leafy greens and other vegetables. These foods generally contain high levels of antioxidants as well as vitamin A and beta carotene. They're also vital to maintaining healthy vision.
Use the right glasses. The right glasses optimize your vision. Having regular exams will ensure that your eyeglass prescription is correct.
Use good lighting. Turn up or add light for better vision.
See your doctor immediately if you experience any of these symptoms — sudden loss of vision in one eye with or without pain, sudden hazy or blurred vision, double vision, or see flashes of light, black spots or halos around lights. Any of these symptoms may signal a serious medical or eye condition.
Symptoms=Presbyopia develops gradually. You may first notice these signs and symptoms after age 40:
A tendency to hold reading material farther away to make the letters clearer
Blurred vision at normal reading distance
Eyestrain or headaches after reading or doing close-up work
You may notice these symptoms are worse if you are tired or are in an area with dim lighting.
Risk Factors
Certain factors can make you more likely to develop presbyopia, including:
Age. Age is the greatest risk factor for presbyopia. Almost everyone experiences some degree of presbyopia after age 40.
Other medical conditions. Being farsighted or having certain diseases — such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis or cardiovascular diseases — can increase your risk of premature presbyopia, which is presbyopia in people younger than 40.
Drugs. Certain drugs are associated with premature presbyopic symptoms, including antidepressants, antihistamines and diuretics.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Preterm labor
Home Remedies
Preterm contractions might be Braxton Hicks contractions, which are common and don't necessarily mean that your cervix will begin to open. If you're having contractions that you think might be a symptom of preterm labor, try walking, resting or changing positions. This might stop false labor contractions. If you're in true preterm labor, however, your contractions will continue.
Bed rest to manage preterm labor hasn't been shown to reduce the risk of preterm birth. Bed rest can lead to blood clots, emotional distress and muscle weakness.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of preterm labor include:
Regular or frequent sensations of abdominal tightening (contractions)
Constant low, dull backache
A sensation of pelvic or lower abdominal pressure
Mild abdominal cramps
Vaginal spotting or light bleeding
Preterm rupture of membranes — in a gush or a continuous trickle of fluid after the membrane around the baby breaks or tears
A change in type of vaginal discharge — watery, mucus-like or bloody
Risk Factors
Preterm labor can affect any pregnancy. Many factors have been associated with an increased risk of preterm labor, however, including:
Previous preterm labor or premature birth, particularly in the most recent pregnancy or in more than one previous pregnancy
Pregnancy with twins, triplets or other multiples
Shortened cervix
Problems with the uterus or placenta
Smoking cigarettes or using illicit drugs
Certain infections, particularly of the amniotic fluid and lower genital tract
Some chronic conditions, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, autoimmune disease and depression
Stressful life events, such as the death of a loved one
Too much amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios)
Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy
Presence of a fetal birth defect
An interval of less than 12 months — or of more than 59 months — between pregnancies
Age of mother, both young and older
Black, non-Hispanic race and ethnicity
Prevention
You might not be able to prevent preterm labor — but there's much you can do to promote a healthy, full-term pregnancy. For example:
Seek regular prenatal care. Prenatal visits can help your health care provider monitor your health and your baby's health. Mention any signs or symptoms that concern you. If you have a history of preterm labor or develop signs or symptoms of preterm labor, you might need to see your health care provider more often during pregnancy.
Eat a healthy diet. Healthy pregnancy outcomes are generally associated with good nutrition. In addition, some research suggests that a diet high in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) is associated with a lower risk of premature birth. PUFAs are found in nuts, seeds, fish and seed oils.
Avoid risky substances. If you smoke, quit. Ask your health care provider about a smoking cessation program. Illicit drugs are off-limits, too.
Consider pregnancy spacing. Some research suggests a link between pregnancies spaced less than six months apart, or more than 59 months apart, and an increased risk of premature birth. Consider talking to your health care provider about pregnancy spacing.
Be cautious when using assisted reproductive technology (ART). If you're planning to use ART to get pregnant, consider how many embryos will be transferred. Multiple pregnancies carry a higher risk of preterm labor.
Manage chronic conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity, increase the risk of preterm labor. Work with your health care provider to keep any chronic conditions under control.
If your health care provider determines that you're at increased risk of preterm labor, he or she might recommend taking additional steps to reduce your risk.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Primary biliary cholangitis
Home Remedies
You may feel better if you take good care of your overall health. Here are some things you can do to improve some primary biliary cholangitis symptoms and, possibly, help prevent certain complications:
Choose reduced-sodium foods. Sodium adds to tissue swelling and to the buildup of fluid in your abdomen. Look for low-sodium foods or naturally sodium-free foods.
Avoid eating oysters or other raw shellfish. Such seafood can carry infection-causing bacteria. Infections can be dangerous for people with liver disease.
Exercise most days of the week. Exercise may reduce your risk of bone loss.
Don't smoke. If you don't smoke, don't start. If you currently smoke, talk with a healthcare professional about strategies to help you quit.
Avoid alcohol. Your liver processes the alcohol you drink. The added stress can cause liver damage. Generally, people with primary biliary cholangitis should not drink alcohol.
Check with your healthcare team before starting new medicines or dietary supplements. Because your liver isn't working normally, you'll likely be more sensitive to the effects of medicines and some dietary supplements. Check with your healthcare team before taking anything new.
Symptoms=More than half of people with primary biliary cholangitis do not have any noticeable symptoms when diagnosed. The disease may be diagnosed when blood tests are done for other reasons, such as routine testing. Symptoms eventually develop over the next 5 to 20 years. Those who do have symptoms at diagnosis typically have poorer outcomes.
Common early symptoms include:
Fatigue.
Itchy skin.
Later signs and symptoms may include:
Yellowing of the skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Dry eyes and mouth.
Pain in the upper right abdomen.
Swelling of the spleen, called splenomegaly.
Bone, muscle or joint pain.
Swollen feet and ankles.
Buildup of fluid in the abdomen due to liver failure, called ascites.
Fatty deposits, called xanthomas, on the skin around the eyes, eyelids or in the creases of the palms, soles, elbows or knees.
Darkening of the skin that's not related to sun exposure, called hyperpigmentation.
Weak and brittle bones, called osteoporosis, which can lead to fractures.
High cholesterol.
Diarrhea that may include greasy stools, called steatorrhea.
Underactive thyroid, called hypothyroidism.
Weight loss.
Request an appointment

Causes
It's not clear what causes primary biliary cholangitis. Many experts consider it an autoimmune disease in which the body turns against its own cells. Researchers believe this autoimmune response may be triggered by environmental and genetic factors.
The liver inflammation seen in primary biliary cholangitis starts when certain types of white blood cells called T cells, also known as T lymphocytes, start to collect in the liver. Usually, these immune cells detect and help defend against germs, such as bacteria and viruses. But in primary biliary cholangitis, they mistakenly destroy the healthy cells that line the small bile ducts in the liver.
Inflammation in the smallest ducts spreads and eventually damages other cells in the liver. As the cells die, they're replaced by scar tissue, also known as fibrosis, that can lead to cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is scarring of liver tissue that makes it difficult for your liver to work properly.
Risk factors
The following factors may increase your risk of primary biliary cholangitis:
Sex. Most people with primary biliary cholangitis are women.
Age. It's most likely to occur in people 30 to 60 years old.
Genetics. You're more likely to get the condition if you have a family member who has or had it.
Geography. It's most common in people of northern European descent, but primary biliary cholangitis can affect all ethnicities and races.
Researchers think that genetic factors combined with certain environmental factors trigger primary biliary cholangitis. These environmental factors may include:
Infections, such as a urinary tract infection.
Smoking cigarettes, especially over long periods of time.
Exposure to toxic chemicals, such as in certain work environments.
Complications
As liver damage worsens, primary biliary cholangitis can cause serious health problems, including:
Liver scarring, called cirrhosis. Cirrhosis makes it difficult for your liver to work and may lead to liver failure. It means the later stage of primary biliary cholangitis. People with primary biliary cholangitis and cirrhosis have a poor medical outlook. They also have a higher risk of other complications.
Increased pressure in the portal vein, called portal hypertension. Blood from your intestine, spleen and pancreas enters your liver through a large blood vessel called the portal vein. When scar tissue from cirrhosis blocks normal blood flow through your liver, blood backs up. This causes increased pressure inside the vein. Also, because blood doesn't flow correctly through your liver, drugs and other toxins aren't filtered properly from your bloodstream.
Enlarged veins, called varices. When blood flow through the portal vein is slowed or blocked, blood may back up into other veins. It usually backs up into those in your stomach and esophagus. Increased pressure may cause delicate veins to break open and bleed. Bleeding in the upper stomach or esophagus is a life-threatening emergency. It requires immediate medical care.
Enlarged spleen, called splenomegaly. Your spleen may become swollen with white blood cells and platelets. This is because your body no longer filters toxins out of the bloodstream as it should.
Gallstones and bile duct stones. If bile cannot flow through the bile ducts, it may harden into stones in the ducts. These stones can cause pain and infection.
Liver cancer. Liver scarring increases your risk of liver cancer. If you have liver scarring, you'll need regular cancer screening.
Weak bones, called osteoporosis. People with primary biliary cholangitis have an increased risk of weak, brittle bones that may break more easily.
Vitamin deficiencies. Not having enough bile affects your digestive system's ability to absorb fats and the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E and K. Because of this, some people with advanced primary biliary cholangitis may have low levels of these vitamins. Low levels can result in a variety of health problems, including night blindness and bleeding disorders.
High cholesterol. Up to 80% of people with primary biliary cholangitis have high cholesterol.
Decreased mental function, called hepatic encephalopathy. Some people with advanced primary biliary cholangitis and cirrhosis have personality changes. They also may have problems with memory and concentration.
Increased risk of other disease. Primary biliary cholangitis is associated with other disorders, including those that affect the thyroid, skin and joints. It also can be associated with dry eyes and mouth, a disorder called Sjogren's syndrome.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
The following factors may increase your risk of primary biliary cholangitis:
Sex. Most people with primary biliary cholangitis are women.
Age. It's most likely to occur in people 30 to 60 years old.
Genetics. You're more likely to get the condition if you have a family member who has or had it.
Geography. It's most common in people of northern European descent, but primary biliary cholangitis can affect all ethnicities and races.
Researchers think that genetic factors combined with certain environmental factors trigger primary biliary cholangitis. These environmental factors may include:
Infections, such as a urinary tract infection.
Smoking cigarettes, especially over long periods of time.
Exposure to toxic chemicals, such as in certain work environments.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Primary ovarian insufficiency
Home Remedies
Learning that you have primary ovarian insufficiency may be emotionally painful. But with proper treatment and self-care, you can expect to lead a healthy life.
Learn about other ways to have children. If you'd like to add to your family, talk to a health care professional about your options. For instance, you could think about trying in vitro fertilization using donor eggs. Or you could adopt a child.
Talk with your health care team about the best birth control options. A small percentage of people with primary ovarian insufficiency do become pregnant if they have sex without a condom. If you don't want to become pregnant, think about using birth control.
Keep your bones strong. Eat a calcium-rich diet. Do weight-bearing exercises such as walking and strength training exercises for your upper body. And don't smoke. Ask your health care team if you need calcium and vitamin D supplements.
Keep track of your menstrual cycle. If you miss a period while taking hormone therapy that causes you to have a monthly cycle, get a pregnancy test.
Symptoms=Symptoms of primary ovarian insufficiency are like those of menopause or low estrogen. They include:
Irregular or missed periods. This symptom might be present for years. It also could develop after a pregnancy or after stopping birth control pills.
Trouble getting pregnant.
Hot flashes and night sweats.
Vaginal dryness.
Anger, depression or anxiety.
Trouble with focus or memory.
Less sexual desire.
Risk Factors
Factors that raise the risk of primary ovarian insufficiency include:
Age. The risk goes up between ages 35 and 40. Primary ovarian insufficiency is rare before age 30. But younger people and even teens can get it.
Family history. Having a family history of primary ovarian insufficiency raises the risk of getting this condition.
Ovarian surgery. Surgeries that involve the ovaries raise the risk of primary ovarian insufficiency.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Primary sclerosing cholangitis
Home Remedies
If you've been diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis, take steps to care for your liver, such as:
Don't drink alcohol.
Get vaccinated against hepatitis A and B.
Use care with chemicals at home and at work.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Follow directions on all medications, both prescription and over-the-counter. Make sure your pharmacist and any doctor prescribing for you know that you have a liver disease.
Talk to your doctor about any herbs or supplements you're taking since some can be harmful to your liver.
Symptoms=Primary sclerosing cholangitis is often diagnosed before symptoms appear when a routine blood test or an X-ray taken for an unrelated condition shows liver abnormalities.
Early signs and symptoms often include:
Fatigue
Itching
Yellow eyes and skin (jaundice)
Abdominal pain
Many people diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis before they have symptoms continue to feel generally well for several years. But there's no reliable way to predict how quickly or slowly the disease will progress for any individual.
Signs and symptoms that may appear as the disease progresses include:
Fever
Chills
Night sweats
Enlarged liver
Enlarged spleen
Weight loss
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of primary sclerosing cholangitis include:
Age. Primary sclerosing cholangitis can occur at any age, but it's most often diagnosed between the ages of 30 and 40.
Sex. Primary sclerosing cholangitis occurs more often in men.
Inflammatory bowel disease. A large proportion of people with primary sclerosing cholangitis also have inflammatory bowel disease.
Geographical location. People with Northern European heritage have a higher risk of primary sclerosing cholangitis.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Progeria
Home Remedies
Here are some steps you can take at home to help your child:
Make sure your child drinks plenty of water. Loss of water, called dehydration, can be more serious in children with progeria. Dehydration is when your body doesn't have enough water and other fluids to carry out normal functions. Be sure your child drinks plenty of water and other fluids, especially during an illness, with activity or in hot weather.
Provide frequent, small meals. Because nutrition and growth can be an issue for children with progeria, giving your child smaller meals more often may help provide more calories. Add healthy, high-calorie foods and snacks as needed. Talk with your health care provider about nutritional supplements. Visits with a registered dietitian can help.
Provide opportunities for regular physical activity. Check with your child's health care provider to learn which activities are safe and healthy for your child.
Get cushioned shoes or shoe inserts for your child. Loss of body fat in the feet can cause discomfort.
Use sunscreen. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply it every two hours. Apply sunscreen more often if your child is swimming or sweating.
Make sure your child is up to date on childhood vaccinations. A child with progeria isn't at increased risk of infection. But like all children, your child is at risk if exposed to infectious diseases.
Provide learning and social opportunities. Progeria won't affect your child's intellect. Your child can attend school at an age-appropriate level. Some adjustments for size and physical ability may be needed.
Make changes at home to allow independence. You may need to make some changes at home that allow your child to have some independence and to be comfortable. These can include ways to allow your child to reach items such as faucets or light switches. Your child may need clothes with special closures or in special sizes. Extra padding for chairs and beds can increase comfort.
Symptoms=Usually within the first year of life, you'll notice that your child's growth has slowed. But motor development and intelligence are not affected.
Symptoms of this progressive disorder cause a distinctive appearance. They include:
Slowed growth and poor weight gain, with below-average height and weight.
Lack of fat that's stored just beneath the skin.
Head that is large compared with the face.
Small jaw, chin and mouth and thin lips.
Thin, curved nose with a slight hook at the end, which may look like a bird's beak.
Large eyes and eyelids that don't close completely.
Hair loss, including eyelashes and eyebrows.
Thin, spotty and wrinkled skin.
Veins easily seen through the skin.
High-pitched voice.
Premature aging.
Symptoms also include health issues:
Severe progressive heart and blood vessel disease, also known as cardiovascular disease.
Hardening and tightening of skin.
Delayed tooth formation and tooth shape that is not usual.
Some hearing loss.
Loss of fat under the skin and loss of muscle.
Problems with the growth and development of bones.
Joint problems, including stiff joints.
A hip that's forced out of the correct position, known as hip dislocation.
Dental problems.
No significant progression of puberty.
Insulin resistance, which means the body doesn't respond well to insulin made by an organ called the pancreas.
Risk Factors
There are no known factors, such as lifestyle or environmental issues, that increase the risk of having progeria or giving birth to a child with progeria. But the age of the father has been described as a possible risk factor. Progeria is extremely rare. If you've had one child with progeria, the chances of having a second child with progeria are slightly higher than the general population but are still low.
If you have a child with progeria, a genetic counselor can give you information about the risk of having other children with progeria.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Progressive supranuclear palsy
Home Remedies
To minimize the effects of progressive supranuclear palsy, you can take certain steps at home:
Use eye drops multiple times a day to help ease dry eyes that can occur as a result of problems with blinking or persistent tearing.
Install grab bars in hallways and bathrooms, to help you avoid falls.
Use a walker that is weighted, to help prevent falling backward.
Remove small area rugs or other items that are hard to see without looking downward.
Don't climb stairs.
Symptoms=Symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy include:
A loss of balance while walking. A tendency to fall backward can occur very early in the disease.
An inability to aim your eyes properly. People with progressive supranuclear palsy may not be able to look downward. Or they may experience blurring and double vision. Not being able to focus the eyes can make some people spill food. They also may appear disinterested in conversation because of lack of eye contact.
Additional symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy vary and may mimic those of Parkinson's disease and dementia. Symptoms get worse over time and may include:
Stiffness, especially of the neck, and awkward movements.
Falling, especially falling backward.
Slow or slurred speech.
Trouble swallowing, which may cause gagging or choking.
Being sensitive to bright light.
Trouble with sleep.
Loss of interest in pleasurable activities.
Impulsive behavior, or laughing or crying for no reason.
Trouble with reasoning, problem-solving and decision-making.
Depression and anxiety.
A surprised or frightened facial expression, resulting from rigid facial muscles.
Dizziness.
Risk Factors
The only proven risk factor for progressive supranuclear palsy is age. The condition typically affects people in their late 60s and 70s. It's virtually unknown in people under the age of 40.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Prostatitis
Home Remedies
The following remedies might ease some symptoms of prostatitis:
Soak in a warm bath (sitz bath) or use a heating pad.
Limit or avoid alcohol, caffeine, and spicy or acidic foods, which can irritate your bladder.
Drink plenty of water. This will cause you to urinate more and help flush bacteria from your bladder.
More Information
Prostatitis and sex
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of prostatitis can vary depending on the type of disorder. They may include:
Pain or burning sensation when urinating (dysuria)
Difficulty urinating, such as dribbling or hesitant urination
Frequent urination, particularly at night (nocturia)
Urgent need to urinate
Cloudy urine
Blood in the urine
Pain in the abdomen, groin or lower back
Pain in the area between the scrotum and rectum (perineum)
Pain or discomfort of the penis or testicles
Painful ejaculation
Fever, chills, muscle aches and other flu-like symptoms (with acute bacterial prostatitis)
Risk Factors
Risk factors for prostatitis include:
Young or middle-aged adulthood
Previous prostatitis
Infection of the urinary or reproductive system
HIV infection or AIDS
Use of a tube inserted into the urethra to drain the bladder (urinary catheter)
Diagnostic sampling of prostate tissue (biopsy)
Additional risk factors for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome may include:
Psychological stress
Nerve damage in the pelvic region due to surgery or trauma
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pseudogout
Home Remedies
Home treatments may be useful during pseudogout flare-ups. Examples include:
NSAIDs. Over-the-counter NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), often are helpful.
Rest the joint. Try not to use the affected joint for a couple of days.
Ice. Cold packs can help reduce the inflammation associated with flare-ups.
Symptoms=Pseudogout most commonly affects the knees. Less often, it affects the wrists and ankles. When a pseudogout attack occurs, the affected joints are usually:
Swollen
Warm
Severely painful
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of pseudogout include:
Older age. The risk of developing pseudogout increases with age.
Joint trauma. Trauma to a joint, such as a serious injury or surgery, increases the risk of pseudogout in that joint.
Genetic disorder. In some families, family members have a hereditary tendency to develop pseudogout. These people tend to develop pseudogout at younger ages.
Mineral imbalances. The risk of pseudogout is higher for people who have excessive calcium or iron in their blood or too little magnesium.
Other medical conditions. Pseudogout has also been linked to an underactive thyroid gland or an overactive parathyroid gland.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Psoriasis
Home Remedies
Try these self-care measures to better manage your psoriasis:
Take daily baths. Wash gently rather than scrubbing your skin in the shower or bath. Use lukewarm water and mild soaps that have added oils or fats. It might help to add bath oil, Epsom salts or oatmeal to bathwater and soak for at least 15 minutes.
Keep your skin moist. Apply moisturizer daily. If you're moisturizing after bathing, gently pat dry and apply your preferred product while your skin is still moist. For very dry skin, oils or heavy ointment-based moisturizers may be preferable — they stay on the skin longer than creams or lotions do. If moisturizing seems to improve your skin, apply the product more than once a day.
If the air where you live is very dry, use a humidifier to add moisture to the air.
Cover the affected areas overnight. Before going to bed, apply an ointment-based moisturizer to the affected skin and wrap with plastic wrap. When you wake, remove the plastic and wash away scales.
Expose your skin to small amounts of sunlight. Ask your health care provider about the best way to use natural sunlight to treat your skin. A controlled amount of sunlight can improve psoriasis, but too much sun can trigger or worsen outbreaks and increase the risk of skin cancer. Log your time in the sun, and protect skin that isn't affected by psoriasis with a hat, clothing or sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 30.
Avoid scratching. It might help to apply a nonprescription anti-itch cream or ointment containing hydrocortisone or salicylic acid. If you have scalp psoriasis, try a medicated shampoo that contains coal tar. Keep your nails trimmed so that they won't hurt your skin if you do scratch. Wear soft fabrics that don't contribute to itchiness.
Avoid psoriasis triggers. Notice what triggers your psoriasis, and take steps to prevent or avoid it. Infections, injuries to your skin, smoking and intense sun exposure can all worsen psoriasis.
Stay cool. Being too hot can make your skin feel itchy. Wear light clothing if you're outside on hot days. If you have air conditioning, use it on hot days to keep cool. Keep cold packs in your freezer and apply them to itchy spots for a few minutes of relief. You might try storing your moisturizing lotion in the refrigerator to add a cooling effect when you apply it
Strive to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Try practicing other healthy-living habits to help manage psoriasis. These include being active, eating well, limiting or avoiding alcohol consumption, and maintaining a healthy weight.
More Information
Psoriasis care at Mayo Clinic
6 ways to manage itchy skin when you have psoriasis
Ease stress to reduce your psoriasis flares
Show more related information
Symptoms=Plaque psoriasis
Enlarge image
Guttate psoriasis
Enlarge image
Inverse psoriasis
Enlarge image
Nail psoriasis
Enlarge image
Pustular psoriasis
Enlarge image
Erythrodermic psoriasis
Enlarge image
Common signs and symptoms of psoriasis include:
A patchy rash that varies widely in how it looks from person to person, ranging from spots of dandruff-like scaling to major eruptions over much of the body
Rashes that vary in color, tending to be shades of purple with gray scale on brown or Black skin and pink or red with silver scale on white skin
Small scaling spots (commonly seen in children)
Dry, cracked skin that may bleed
Itching, burning or soreness
Cyclic rashes that flare for a few weeks or months and then subside
There are several types of psoriasis, each of which varies in its signs and symptoms:
Plaque psoriasis. The most common type of psoriasis, plaque psoriasis causes dry, itchy, raised skin patches (plaques) covered with scales. There may be few or many. They usually appear on the elbows, knees, lower back and scalp. The patches vary in color, depending on skin color. The affected skin might heal with temporary changes in color (post inflammatory hyperpigmentation), particularly on brown or Black skin.
Nail psoriasis. Psoriasis can affect fingernails and toenails, causing pitting, abnormal nail growth and discoloration. Psoriatic nails might loosen and separate from the nail bed (onycholysis). Severe disease may cause the nail to crumble.
Guttate psoriasis. Guttate psoriasis primarily affects young adults and children. It's usually triggered by a bacterial infection such as strep throat. It's marked by small, drop-shaped, scaling spots on the trunk, arms or legs.
Inverse psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis mainly affects the skin folds of the groin, buttocks and breasts. It causes smooth patches of inflamed skin that worsen with friction and sweating. Fungal infections may trigger this type of psoriasis.
Pustular psoriasis. Pustular psoriasis, a rare type, causes clearly defined pus-filled blisters. It can occur in widespread patches or on small areas of the palms or soles.
Erythrodermic psoriasis. The least common type of psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis can cover the entire body with a peeling rash that can itch or burn intensely. It can be short-lived (acute) or long-term (chronic).
Risk Factors
Anyone can develop psoriasis. About a third of instances begin in childhood. These factors can increase the risk of developing the disease:
Family history. The condition runs in families. Having one parent with psoriasis increases your risk of getting the disease. And having two parents with psoriasis increases your risk even more.
Smoking. Smoking tobacco not only increases the risk of psoriasis but also may increase the severity of the disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Pulmonary atresia
Home Remedies
Here are some tips for caring for someone with pulmonary atresia after coming home from the hospital:
Go to scheduled health checkups. A person born with pulmonary atresia needs regular checkups, even as an adult. A doctor trained in congenital heart diseases, called a congenital cardiologist, often provides care. Get recommended vaccines, including yearly flu vaccines.
Ask about exercise and activity. Some children with a congenital heart defect may need to limit exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Your child's care team can tell you which sports and types of exercise are safe for your child.
Practice good oral hygiene. Brushing and flossing teeth and getting regular dental checkups can help prevent infection.
Ask about preventive antibiotics. Sometimes, a congenital heart defect can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures to prevent infection, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve.
Symptoms=Symptoms of pulmonary atresia may be seen soon after birth. They can include:
Blue or gray skin, lips or fingernails due to low oxygen levels. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fast breathing or shortness of breath.
Tiring easily.
Not feeding well.
Risk Factors
Pulmonary atresia happens as the baby's heart is forming during pregnancy. Certain health conditions or illicit drug use during pregnancy may increase a baby's risk of pulmonary atresia or other congenital heart defects. Risk factors include:
Obesity.
Alcohol or tobacco use.
Diabetes.
Use of some types of medicines during pregnancy, such as certain acne and blood pressure medicines.
Some types of congenital heart defects occur in families. This means they are inherited. If you or someone in your family was born with a heart problem, including pulmonary atresia, ask your care team is genetic screening is right for you. Screening can help show the risk of certain congenital heart defects in future children.
Prevention
It might not be possible to prevent pulmonary atresia. But getting good prenatal care is important. Some things you can do before or during pregnancy might help lower your baby's risk of congenital heart defects. They include:
Control other health conditions. If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar in check. For other conditions that need medicines, talk to your healthcare professional about taking these medicines while pregnant.
Don't smoke and don't be around others who smoke. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of a congenital heart defect in the baby.
Aim for a healthy weight. Obesity increases the risk of having a baby with a congenital heart defect.
Get recommended vaccinations. Having rubella, also called German measles, during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/58/ds01204_im04757_mcdc7_pulmonaryatresiathu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Pulmonary fibrosis
Home Remedies
Being actively involved in your treatment and staying as healthy as possible are essential to living with pulmonary fibrosis. It's important to:
Stop smoking. If you have lung disease, it is important to stop smoking. Talk with your healthcare team about options for quitting, including smoking cessation programs. These use proven techniques to help people quit. Because secondhand smoke can be harmful to your lungs, avoid being around people who are smoking.
Avoid other things that can irritate your lungs. Breathing indoor pollutants, such as fumes from heating fuel or chemicals, can irritate your lungs. So can outdoor pollutants, such as dust or car exhaust.
Eat well. People with lung disease may lose weight both because eating is not comfortable and because of the extra energy it takes to breathe. A healthy diet that contains enough calories is needed. Try to eat smaller meals more often during the day. A dietitian can give you more information on healthy eating for your condition.
Get moving. Regular exercise can help you keep your lung function and manage your stress. Aim to include physical activity, such as walking or biking, into your daily routine. Talk to your healthcare team about what activities may be best for you. If over time you need help getting around, such as using a wheelchair, look for active movements you can do that do not require walking. One example is tai chi.
Take time to rest. Make sure to get enough rest. Taking time to rest can help you have more energy and cope with the stress of your condition. If you have problems sleeping, talk with your healthcare team.
Get vaccinated. Respiratory infections, such as colds and flu, can worsen symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis. Make sure that you get the pneumonia vaccine, an annual flu shot and COVID-19 vaccines. It's important that your family members also be vaccinated. Try to stay out of crowds when possible.
Follow your treatment plan. You usually need ongoing treatment from your healthcare team. Follow the care team's instructions. Take your medicines as prescribed. Adjust your diet and exercise as needed. Attend pulmonary rehabilitation sessions. Go to all of your appointments and contact your care team if symptoms worsen.
Symptoms=Symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis may include:
Shortness of breath.
Dry cough.
Extreme tiredness.
Weight loss that's not intended.
Aching muscles and joints.
Widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes, called clubbing.
How fast pulmonary fibrosis worsens over time and how severe the symptoms are can vary greatly from person to person. Some people become ill very quickly with severe disease. Others have moderate symptoms that worsen more slowly, over months or years.
When symptoms suddenly get worse
In people with pulmonary fibrosis, especially idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, shortness of breath can suddenly get worse over a few weeks or days. This is called an acute exacerbation. It can be life-threatening. The cause of an acute exacerbation may be another condition or an illness, such as a lung infection. But usually the cause is not known.
Risk Factors
Pulmonary fibrosis has been found in children and infants, but this is not common. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is much more likely to affect middle-aged and older adults. Other types of pulmonary fibrosis, such as that caused by connective tissue disease, can occur in younger people.
Factors that can raise your risk of pulmonary fibrosis include:
Smoking. If you smoke now or used to smoke, you're at a higher risk of pulmonary fibrosis than people who never smoked. People with emphysema are at higher risk, too.
Certain types of work. You have a higher risk of developing pulmonary fibrosis if you work in mining, farming or construction. The risk also is higher if you have continuous or repeated contact with pollutants known to damage the lungs.
Cancer treatments. Having radiation treatments to your chest or using certain chemotherapy medicines can raise your risk of pulmonary fibrosis.
Genetics. Some types of pulmonary fibrosis run in families, so genes may play a role.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2016/08/10/14/57/mcdc7_pulmonaryfibrosis-8col.jpg
Condition
Pulmonary hypertension
Home Remedies
Lifestyle changes may help improve pulmonary hypertension symptoms. Try these tips:
Eat healthy. Eat a healthy diet rich in whole grains, fruits and vegetables, lean meats, and low-fat dairy products. Try to stay away from saturated fat, trans fat and cholesterol. Limit salt.
Stay as active as possible and manage weight. Even mild forms activity might be too exhausting for some people who have pulmonary hypertension. For others, moderate exercise, such as walking, might be helpful — especially when done during oxygen therapy. Your health care team can help you plan an appropriate exercise program.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, the most important thing you can do for your heart and lungs is to stop. If you need support quitting, ask your health care team for treatment that can help. Avoid secondhand smoke too, if possible.
Get plenty of rest. Resting can reduce tiredness related to pulmonary hypertension.
Avoid high altitudes. High altitudes can make pulmonary hypertension worse. If you live at an altitude of 8,000 feet (2,438 meters) or higher, you might be told to consider moving to a lower altitude.
Avoid activities that can excessively lower blood pressure. These include sitting in a hot tub or sauna or taking long hot baths or showers. Such activities lower blood pressure and can cause fainting or even death. Also, do not do activities that cause a lot of straining, such as lifting heavy objects or weights.
Give your health care team a list of your medicines. Some medicines can make pulmonary hypertension worse or affect its treatment.
Get regular health checkups. Tell your health care team about any new or worsening symptoms or medicine side effects. If pulmonary hypertension affects your quality of life, ask about options that could help.
Get recommended vaccines. Respiratory infections can cause serious health concerns for people with pulmonary hypertension. Ask your health care team about recommend vaccines to prevent common viral infections.
Talk to a health care professional before becoming pregnant. Pulmonary hypertension can cause serious complications to both mother and baby during pregnancy. Birth control pills can increase the risk of blood clots. Talk to your health care team about other birth control options.
Symptoms=The symptoms of pulmonary hypertension develop slowly. You may not notice them for months or even years. Symptoms get worse as the disease progresses.
Pulmonary hypertension symptoms include:
Shortness of breath, at first while exercising and eventually while at rest.
Blue or gray skin color due to low oxygen levels. Depending on your skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Chest pressure or pain.
Dizziness or fainting spells.
Fast pulse or pounding heartbeat.
Fatigue.
Swelling in the ankles, legs and belly area.
Shortness of breath is the most common symptom of pulmonary hypertension. But it may be caused by other health conditions such as asthma. See a health care professional for an accurate diagnosis.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Chambers and valves of the heart
Enlarge image
The typical heart has two upper chambers and two lower chambers. Each time blood moves through the heart, the lower right chamber pumps blood to the lungs. The blood passes through a large blood vessel called the pulmonary artery.
Blood usually flows easily through blood vessels in the lungs to the left side of the heart. These blood vessels are the pulmonary arteries, capillaries and veins.
But changes in the cells that line the lung arteries can cause the artery walls to become narrow, stiff, swollen and thick. These changes may slow down or stop blood flow through the lungs, causing pulmonary hypertension.
Pulmonary hypertension is classified into five groups, depending on the cause.
Group 1: Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
Causes include:
Unknown cause, called idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Changes in a gene passed down through families, called heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Use of some medicines or illegal drugs, including methamphetamine.
Heart problems present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Other health conditions, including scleroderma, lupus and chronic liver disease such as cirrhosis.
Group 2: Pulmonary hypertension caused by left-sided heart disease
This is the most common form of pulmonary hypertension. Causes include:
Left heart failure.
Left-sided heart valve disease such as mitral valve or aortic valve disease.
Group 3: Pulmonary hypertension caused by lung disease
Causes include:
Scarring of the lungs, called pulmonary fibrosis.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Sleep apnea.
Long-term exposure to high altitudes in people who may be at higher risk of pulmonary hypertension.
Group 4: Pulmonary hypertension caused by chronic blood clots or blockages in the pulmonary artery
Causes include:
Chronic blood clots in the lungs, called pulmonary emboli.
Tumors that block the pulmonary artery.
Group 5: Pulmonary hypertension triggered by other health conditions
Causes include:
Blood disorders, including polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia.
Inflammatory disorders such as sarcoidosis.
Metabolic disorders, including glycogen storage disease.
Kidney disease.
Eisenmenger syndrome and pulmonary hypertension
Eisenmenger syndrome is a type of congenital heart disease that causes pulmonary hypertension. It can occur with unrepaired holes between the heart chambers. An example is a large hole in the heart between the two lower heart chambers called a ventricular septal defect.
The hole in the heart causes blood to flow incorrectly in the heart. Oxygen-rich blood mixes with oxygen-poor blood. The blood then returns to the lungs instead of going to the rest of the body. This increases the blood flow and pressure in the pulmonary arteries, causing pulmonary hypertension.
Risk factors
Pulmonary hypertension is usually diagnosed in people ages 30 to 60. Growing older can increase the risk of developing Group 1 pulmonary hypertension, called pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). PAH from an unknown cause is more common in younger adults.
Other things that can raise the risk of pulmonary hypertension are:
A family history of the condition.
Being overweight.
Smoking.
Blood-clotting disorders or a family history of blood clots in the lungs.
Exposure to asbestos.
A heart problem that you're born with, called a congenital heart defect.
Living at a high altitude.
Use of certain drugs, including some weight-loss medicines and illegal drugs such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
Complications
Potential complications of pulmonary hypertension include:
Right-sided heart enlargement and heart failure. Also called cor pulmonale, this condition causes the heart's right lower chamber to get larger. The chamber has to pump harder than usual to move blood through narrowed or blocked lung arteries.
As a result, the heart walls thicken. The right lower heart chamber stretches to increase the amount of blood it can hold. These changes create more strain on the heart, and eventually the right lower heart chamber fails.
Blood clots. Having pulmonary hypertension increases the risk of blood clots in the small arteries in the lungs.
Irregular heartbeats. Pulmonary hypertension can cause changes in the heartbeat, called arrhythmias, which can be life-threatening.
Bleeding in the lungs. Pulmonary hypertension can lead to life-threatening bleeding into the lungs and coughing up blood.
Pregnancy complications. Pulmonary hypertension can be life-threatening for the mother and the developing baby.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Pulmonary hypertension is usually diagnosed in people ages 30 to 60. Growing older can increase the risk of developing Group 1 pulmonary hypertension, called pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). PAH from an unknown cause is more common in younger adults.
Other things that can raise the risk of pulmonary hypertension are:
A family history of the condition.
Being overweight.
Smoking.
Blood-clotting disorders or a family history of blood clots in the lungs.
Exposure to asbestos.
A heart problem that you're born with, called a congenital heart defect.
Living at a high altitude.
Use of certain drugs, including some weight-loss medicines and illegal drugs such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sacroiliitis
Home Remedies
Home treatments for sacroiliitis pain include:
Pain relievers you can get without a prescription. Medicines such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may help relieve the pain of sacroiliitis. Some of these medicines can cause stomach upset, or kidney or liver problems.
Rest. Changing or not doing the activities that worsen pain might help. Using good posture is important.
Ice and heat. Switching between ice and heat might help relieve sacroiliac pain.
Symptoms=The pain of sacroiliitis most often occurs in the buttocks and lower back. It also can affect the legs, groin and even the feet. The pain can improve with movement. The following can make sacroiliitis pain worse:
Sleeping or sitting for a long time.
Standing a long time.
Having more weight on one leg than the other.
Stair climbing.
Running.
Taking large steps when moving forward.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Causes for sacroiliac joint issues include:
Injury. A sudden impact, such as a motor vehicle accident or a fall, can damage the sacroiliac joints.
Arthritis. Wear-and-tear arthritis, also known as osteoarthritis, can occur in sacroiliac joints. So can a type of arthritis that affects the spine, known as ankylosing spondylitis.
Pregnancy. The sacroiliac joints loosen and stretch for childbirth. The added weight and changed way of walking during pregnancy can stress these joints.
Infection. Rarely, a sacroiliac joint can become infected.
Risk factors
Certain conditions may increase the risk of swelling in the sacroiliac joints.
Inflammatory forms of arthritis, such as ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis, may increase the risk of sacroiliitis. Inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, also may increase the risk.
Changes that happen to the body during pregnancy and childbirth also can stress the sacroiliac joints and cause pain and swelling.
Complications
Sacroiliitis can cause difficulty with certain actions, such as bending, lifting, staying in one position and rising from being seated. The ongoing pain of sacroiliitis can lead to depression and loss of sleep.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Certain conditions may increase the risk of swelling in the sacroiliac joints.
Inflammatory forms of arthritis, such as ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis, may increase the risk of sacroiliitis. Inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, also may increase the risk.
Changes that happen to the body during pregnancy and childbirth also can stress the sacroiliac joints and cause pain and swelling.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Salivary gland tumors
Home Remedies
Coping with dry mouth
People with salivary gland tumors that are cancerous may need to have radiation therapy. One side effect of radiation therapy to the head and neck area is having a very dry mouth, called xerostomia. Having a dry mouth can cause discomfort. It can lead to frequent infections in your mouth, cavities and problems with your teeth. Dry mouth also can make eating, swallowing and speaking difficult.
You may find some relief from dry mouth and its complications if you:
Avoid acidic or spicy foods and drinks. Choose foods and drinks that won't irritate your mouth. Avoid caffeinated and alcoholic beverages.
Brush your teeth several times each day. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush and gently brush your teeth several times each day. Tell your healthcare professional if your mouth becomes too sensitive to tolerate gentle brushing.
Choose moist foods. Avoid dry foods. Moisten dry food with sauce, gravy, broth, butter or milk.
Keep your mouth moistened with water or sugarless candies. Drink water throughout the day to keep your mouth moistened. Also try sugarless gum or sugarless candies to stimulate your mouth to produce saliva.
Rinse your mouth with warm salt water after meals. Make a mild solution of warm water and salt. Rinse your mouth with this solution after each meal.
Tell your healthcare professional if you have dry mouth. Treatments may help you cope with more-severe symptoms of dry mouth. You also may be referred to a dietitian who can help you find foods that are easier to eat if you're experiencing dry mouth.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of a salivary gland tumor may include:
A lump or swelling on or near the jaw or in the neck or mouth.
Muscle weakness on one side of the face.
Numbness in part of the face.
Ongoing pain near a salivary gland.
Trouble opening the mouth widely.
Trouble swallowing.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of salivary gland tumors include:
Older age. Though salivary gland tumors can happen at any age, they most often happen in older adults.
Radiation exposure. Radiation treatments for cancer, such as radiation used to treat head and neck cancers, may increase the risk of salivary gland tumors.
Smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco is shown to increase the risk of salivary gland tumors.
Viral infections. People who have had viral infections such as Epstein-Barr virus, human immunodeficiency virus and human papillomavirus may have a higher risk of salivary gland tumors.
Workplace exposure to certain substances. People who work with certain substances may have an increased risk of salivary gland tumors. Examples of industries associated with an increased risk include those that involve rubber manufacturing and nickel.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sarcoidosis
Home Remedies
In addition to treatment, these self-care tips can help:
Take your medication as prescribed. Even if you start to feel better, don't stop taking your medication without talking with your doctor. Keep all follow-up appointments and ongoing monitoring. Let your doctor know if you have new symptoms.
Make healthy lifestyle choices. These can include eating a healthy diet, maintaining a healthy weight, managing stress and getting adequate sleep.
Participate in regular physical activity. Engaging in regular physical exercise can improve mood, strengthen muscles and help reduce fatigue that can interfere with your daily activities.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of sarcoidosis vary depending on which organs are affected. Sarcoidosis sometimes develops gradually and produces symptoms that last for years. Other times, symptoms appear suddenly and then disappear just as quickly. Many people with sarcoidosis have no symptoms, so the disease may be discovered only when a chest X-ray is done for another reason.
General symptoms
Sarcoidosis can begin with these signs and symptoms:
Fatigue
Swollen lymph nodes
Weight loss
Pain and swelling in joints, such as the ankles
Lung symptoms
Sarcoidosis most often affects the lungs and may cause lung problems, such as:
Persistent dry cough
Shortness of breath
Wheezing
Chest pain
Skin symptoms
Sarcoidosis may cause skin problems, which may include:
A rash of red or reddish-purple bumps, usually located on the shins or ankles, which may be warm and tender to the touch
Disfiguring sores (lesions) on the nose, cheeks and ears
Areas of skin that are darker or lighter in color
Growths under the skin (nodules), particularly around scars or tattoos
Eye symptoms
Sarcoidosis can affect the eyes without causing any symptoms, so it's important to have your eyes checked regularly. When eye signs and symptoms do occur, they may include:
Blurred vision
Eye pain
Burning, itching or dry eyes
Severe redness
Sensitivity to light
Heart symptoms
Signs and symptoms related to cardiac sarcoidosis may include:
Chest pain
Shortness of breath (dyspnea)
Fainting (syncope)
Fatigue
Irregular heartbeats (arrhythmias)
Rapid or fluttering heart beat (palpitations)
Swelling caused by excess fluid (edema)
Sarcoidosis can also affect calcium metabolism, the nervous system, the liver and spleen, muscles, bones and joints, the kidneys, lymph nodes, or any other organ.
Risk Factors
While anyone can develop sarcoidosis, factors that may increase your risk include:
Age and sex. Sarcoidosis can occur at any age, but often occurs between the ages of 20 and 60 years. Women are slightly more likely to develop the disease.
Race. People of African descent and those of Northern European descent have a higher incidence of sarcoidosis. African-Americans are more likely to have involvement of other organs along with the lungs.
Family history. If someone in your family has had sarcoidosis, you're more likely to develop the disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Scabies
Home Remedies
Your skin might still itch for several weeks after scabies treatment. Taking oral allergy pills or using nonprescription skin creams, such as calamine lotion, may help ease itching.
Symptoms=Scabies symptoms include:
Itching, often severe and usually worse at night
Thin, wavy tunnels made up of tiny blisters or bumps on the skin
Scabies is often found in the skin folds. But scabies can appear on many parts of the body. In adults and older children, scabies is most often found:
Between the fingers and toes
In the armpits
Around the waist
Along the insides of the wrists
On the inner elbows
On the soles of the feet
On the chest
Around the nipples
Around the belly button
Around the genitals
In the groin area
On the buttocks
In infants and young children, common sites of scabies usually include the:
Fingers
Face, scalp and neck
Palms of the hands
Soles of the feet
If you've had scabies before, symptoms may start within a few days of exposure. If you've never had scabies, it can take as long as six weeks for symptoms to start. You can still spread scabies even if you don't have any symptoms yet.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention
To prevent scabies from coming back and to keep the mites from spreading to other people, take these steps:
Wash all clothes and linen. Heat kills the mites and their eggs. Use hot, soapy water to wash all clothing, towels and bedding used in the last three days before beginning treatment. Dry with high heat. Dry-clean items you can't wash at home.
Starve the mites. Place items you can't wash in sealed plastic bags and leave them in an out-of-the-way place, such as your garage, for a week. Mites die after a few days without food.
Clean and vacuum. It's a good idea to clean your home to prevent scabies from spreading. This is especially true for people with crusted scabies. Vacuum furniture, carpets and floors to remove scales and crusts that may have scabies mites.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sciatica
Home Remedies
For most people, sciatica responds to self-care measures. Although resting for a day or so may provide relief, staying inactive will make symptoms worse.
Other self-care treatments that might help include:
Cold packs. Place a cold pack on the painful area for up to 20 minutes several times a day. Use an ice pack or a package of frozen peas wrapped in a clean towel.
Hot packs. After 2 to 3 days, apply heat to the areas that hurt. Use hot packs, a heat lamp or a heating pad on the lowest setting. For continuing pain, try using both warm and cold packs, one at a time.
Stretching. Stretching exercises for the low back might provide some relief. Try to hold the stretch for at least 30 seconds. Avoid jerking, bouncing or twisting during the stretch.
Medications. Pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) are sometimes helpful for sciatica. Use only as directed.
Symptoms=Sciatica pain can be almost anywhere along the nerve pathway. It's especially likely to follow a path from the low back to the buttock and the back of a thigh and calf.
The pain can vary from a mild ache to a sharp, burning pain. Sometimes it feels like a jolt or electric shock. It can be worse when coughing or sneezing or sitting a long time. Usually, sciatica affects only one side of the body.
Some people also have numbness, tingling, or muscle weakness in the leg or foot. One part of the leg can be in pain, while another part can feel numb.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for sciatica include:
Age. People ages 20 to 50 are most likely to have herniated disks. Bone spurs develop more commonly as people age.
Obesity. Being overweight increases stress on the spine.
Occupation. A job that requires twisting the back, carrying heavy loads or driving a motor vehicle for long periods might play a role in herniated disks.
Prolonged sitting. People who sit a lot or don't move much are more likely to develop herniated disks than active people are.
Diabetes. This condition, which affects the way the body uses blood sugar, increases the risk of nerve damage.
Prevention
It's not always possible to prevent sciatica, and the condition can come back. To protect your back:
Exercise regularly. To keep the back strong, work the core muscles — the muscles in the abdomen and lower back needed for good posture and alignment. A healthcare professional can recommend activities.
Keep good posture when sitting. Choose a seat with good lower back support, armrests and a swivel base. For better low back support, place a pillow or rolled towel in the small of the back to keep its normal curve. Keep knees and hips level.
Use your body correctly. When standing for long periods, rest one foot on a stool or small box from time to time. When lifting something heavy, let your legs do the work. Hold the load close to your body. Don't lift and twist at the same time. Find someone to help lift heavy or awkward things.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Scleroderma
Home Remedies
You can take a number of steps to help manage your symptoms of scleroderma:
Stay active. Exercise keeps your body flexible, improves circulation and eases stiffness. Range-of-motion exercises can help keep your skin and joints flexible. This is always very important, especially early in the disease course.
Protect your skin. Take good care of dry or stiff skin by using lotion and sunscreen regularly. Avoid hot baths and showers and exposure to strong soaps and household chemicals, which can irritate and further dry out your skin.
Don't smoke. Nicotine causes blood vessels to contract, making Raynaud's phenomenon worse. Smoking also can cause permanent narrowing of the blood vessels and cause or worsen lung problems. Quitting smoking can be difficult. Ask your healthcare professional for help.
Manage heartburn. Avoid foods that give you heartburn or gas. Also avoid late-night meals. Elevate the head of your bed to keep stomach acid from backing up into your esophagus as you sleep. Antacids may help relieve symptoms.
Protect yourself from the cold. Wear warm mittens for protection anytime your hands are exposed to cold — even when you reach into a freezer. It also is important to keep your core body temperature warm to help prevent Raynaud's phenomenon. When you're outside in the cold, wear warm boots, cover your face and head, and wear layers of warm clothing.
Symptoms=Scleroderma symptoms vary from person to person, depending on which parts of the body are affected.
Skin-related symptoms
Nearly everyone who has scleroderma experiences hardening and tightening of the skin.
The first parts of the body to be affected are usually the fingers, hands, feet and face. In some people, the skin thickening also can involve the forearms, upper arms, chest, abdomen, lower legs and thighs. Early symptoms may include swelling and itchiness. The color of affected skin can become lighter or darker, and skin may look shiny because of the tightness.
Some people also have small red spots, called telangiectasia, on their hands and face. Calcium deposits can form under the skin, particularly at the fingertips, causing bumps that can be seen on X-rays.
Raynaud's phenomenon
Raynaud's phenomenon is common in scleroderma. It happens because of an exaggerated contraction of the small blood vessels in the fingers and toes in response to cold temperatures or emotional distress. When this happens, the digits may feel painful or numb and turn white, blue, gray or red. Raynaud's phenomenon also can occur in people who don't have scleroderma.
Digestive symptoms
Scleroderma can affect any part of the digestive system, from the esophagus to the rectum. Depending on which parts of the digestive system are affected, symptoms may include:
Heartburn.
Difficulty swallowing.
Bloating.
Diarrhea.
Constipation.
Fecal incontinence.
Heart- and lung-related symptoms
When scleroderma affects the heart or lungs, it can cause shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance and dizziness. Scleroderma can cause scarring in the lung tissues that may result in increasing shortness of breath over time. There are medicines that may help slow the progression of this lung damage.
Scleroderma also can cause the blood pressure to increase in the circulation that goes between the heart and the lungs. This is called pulmonary hypertension. In addition to causing shortness of breath, pulmonary hypertension also can cause excess fluid to build up in the legs, feet and sometimes around the heart.
When scleroderma affects the heart, heartbeats can become irregular. Heart failure also may happen in some people.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Scleroderma happens when the body produces too much collagen and it builds up in body tissues. Collagen is a fibrous type of protein that makes up the body's connective tissues, including the skin.
Experts don't know exactly what causes this process to begin, but the body's immune system appears to play a role. Most likely, scleroderma is caused by a combination of factors, including immune system problems, genetics and environmental triggers.
Risk factors
Anyone can get scleroderma, but it is more common in people assigned female at birth. People typically get scleroderma between ages 30 and 50. Black people often have earlier onset and are more likely to have more skin involvement and lung disease.
Several other combined factors appear to influence the risk of having scleroderma:
Genetics. People who have certain gene changes appear to be more likely to develop scleroderma. This may explain why scleroderma appears to run in families in a small number of people and why some types of scleroderma are more common for people in certain racial and ethnic groups.
Environmental triggers. Research suggests that in some people, scleroderma symptoms may be triggered by exposure to certain viruses, medicines or drugs. Repeated exposure, such as at work, to certain harmful substances or chemicals also may increase the risk of scleroderma. An environmental trigger is not identified for most people.
Immune system conditions. Scleroderma is believed to be an autoimmune disease. This means that it occurs in part because the body's immune system begins to attack the connective tissues. People who have scleroderma also may have symptoms of another autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or Sjogren syndrome.
Complications
Scleroderma complications range from mild to serious and can affect the:
Fingertips. In systemic sclerosis, Raynaud's phenomenon can become so severe that the restricted blood flow permanently damages the tissue at the fingertips, causing pits or skin sores. In some people, the tissue on the fingertips may die.
Lungs. Scarring of lung tissue can impact the ability to breathe and tolerance for exercise. High blood pressure in the arteries to the lungs also may happen.
Kidneys. A serious kidney complication, called scleroderma renal crisis, involves a sudden increase in blood pressure and rapid kidney failure. Prompt treatment of this condition is important to preserve kidney function.
Heart. Scarring of heart tissue increases the risk of irregular heartbeats and heart failure. Scleroderma also can cause inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart.
Teeth. Serious tightening of facial skin can cause the mouth to become smaller and narrower. This may make it hard to brush the teeth or to have them professionally cleaned or restored. People who have scleroderma often don't make typical amounts of saliva, so the risk of dental decay increases even more.
Digestive system. Digestive complications of scleroderma can include heartburn and difficulty swallowing. Scleroderma also can cause bouts of cramps, bloating, constipation or diarrhea. Some people who have scleroderma also may have problems absorbing nutrients due to overgrowth of bacteria in the intestine.
Joints. The skin over joints can become so tight that it restricts flexibility and movement, particularly in the hands.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Anyone can get scleroderma, but it is more common in people assigned female at birth. People typically get scleroderma between ages 30 and 50. Black people often have earlier onset and are more likely to have more skin involvement and lung disease.
Several other combined factors appear to influence the risk of having scleroderma:
Genetics. People who have certain gene changes appear to be more likely to develop scleroderma. This may explain why scleroderma appears to run in families in a small number of people and why some types of scleroderma are more common for people in certain racial and ethnic groups.
Environmental triggers. Research suggests that in some people, scleroderma symptoms may be triggered by exposure to certain viruses, medicines or drugs. Repeated exposure, such as at work, to certain harmful substances or chemicals also may increase the risk of scleroderma. An environmental trigger is not identified for most people.
Immune system conditions. Scleroderma is believed to be an autoimmune disease. This means that it occurs in part because the body's immune system begins to attack the connective tissues. People who have scleroderma also may have symptoms of another autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or Sjogren syndrome.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Scoliosis
Home Remedies
There are no specific activities that are known to cause or correct scoliosis. In general, people with scoliosis have no restrictions regarding lifting or activities. General exercise or participating in sports may have the benefit of improving overall health and well-being.
Symptoms=Symptoms of scoliosis may include:
Uneven shoulders.
One shoulder blade that appears more prominent than the other.
Uneven waist.
One hip higher than the other.
One side of the rib cage jutting forward.
A prominence on one side of the back when bending forward.
With most scoliosis cases, the spine will rotate or twist in addition to curving side to side. This causes the ribs or muscles on one side of the body to stick out farther than those on the other side.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for developing the most common type of scoliosis include:
Age. Signs and symptoms typically begin in adolescence.
Sex. Although both boys and girls develop mild scoliosis at about the same rate, girls have a much higher risk of the curve worsening and requiring treatment.
Family history. Scoliosis can run in families, but most children with scoliosis don't have a family history of the disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Scorpion sting
Home Remedies
If a scorpion stings your child, first contact your local poison control center. To reach this center, call Poison Help at 800-222-1222.
Based on Poison Help's advice, consider the following:
Clean the wound with mild soap and water.
Apply a cool compress to the affected area. This may ease the pain.
If stung on an arm or leg, rest the affected limb in a supportive position.
If having a hard time swallowing, limit intake to sips of water. If this symptom does not resolve or gets worse over the next hour, seek medical attention.
Don't take or give any medicines to make you sleep or to feel calm or less anxious.
Take a pain reliever available without a prescription as needed. You might try ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, Children's Motrin, others) to ease pain.
If you're healthy and you're not having any serious symptoms, you may not need to be treated by a doctor. Rather, you also can follow the steps above.
Check vaccination records to be sure tetanus vaccinations are up to date for you and your child.
These tips can help keep children safe until they see a doctor.
Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=Symptoms at the site of a scorpion sting may include:
Pain, which can be intense.
Numbness and tingling.
Slight swelling.
Warmth.
Symptoms from venom that affect the whole body — usually in children who are stung — include:
A hard time breathing.
Muscle twitching or thrashing.
Unusual head, neck and eye movements.
Drooling.
Sweating.
Slurred speech.
Nausea and vomiting.
High blood pressure (hypertension).
Fast heart rate (tachycardia).
Being restless or excitable, or crying in children that can't be comforted.
As with other stinging insects, such as bees and wasps, it is possible for people who have been stung by scorpions before to have allergic reactions when stung later. Reactions to these later stings are sometimes serious enough to cause a life-threatening condition called anaphylaxis. Symptoms in these cases are like those of anaphylaxis caused by bee stings, including hives, trouble breathing, and nausea and vomiting.
Risk Factors
Your risk of a scorpion sting rises if you:
Live or travel where scorpions are. In the U.S., scorpions mainly live in the desert Southwest, primarily Arizona, New Mexico and parts of California. Worldwide, they're found most often in Mexico, North Africa, South America, the Middle East and India. And you might bring them home with you. That's because scorpions can hide in clothing, luggage and shipping containers.
Work, hike or camp where scorpions are. Bark scorpions live under rocks and logs. They also live under tree bark, which is how they get their name. You're more likely to come into contact with one when you're working outside, hiking or camping.
Prevention
Scorpions tend to avoid contact. If you live in an area where scorpions are common, consider these steps to prevent chance meetings:
Remove piles of rocks or lumber from around your house, and don't store firewood against the house or inside.
Keep grass closely mowed, and prune bushes and overhanging tree branches that can provide scorpions with a path to your roof.
Caulk cracks, install weatherstripping around doors and windows, and repair torn screens.
Inspect and shake out gardening gloves, clothing and boots that haven't been used for a while.
Take steps when you're traveling. When you're in areas where deadly scorpions are common — especially if you're camping or staying in rustic accommodations — wear shoes. Also, shake out your clothing, bedding, gear and packages often.
Scorpions glow under a black light, so you might want to use one at night to look at what's around you. If you find a scorpion, use tongs to gently move it away from people.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Scrotal masses
Home Remedies
Testicular self-exam
Enlarge image
Self-exams of the testicles might help you find a scrotal mass early on. To do a self-exam, follow these steps:
Check your testicles once a month. This is key if you've had testicular cancer or if a blood relative, such as your father or brother, has had it.
Do the exam after a warm bath or shower. The heat from the water relaxes your scrotum, making it easier for you to check.
Stand in front of a mirror. Look for swelling on the skin of the scrotum.
Cup your scrotum with one hand to see if it feels different than usual.
Check one testicle at a time using both hands. Place the index and middle fingers under the testicle; place your thumbs on top.
Gently roll the testicle between the thumbs and fingers to feel for lumps. The testicles are usually smooth, oval shaped and somewhat firm. Often, one testicle is slightly larger than the other.
Feel along the soft, comma-shaped structure that runs above and behind the testicle, called the epididymis, to check for swelling.
If you find a lump or other unusual change, seek medical care to get it checked as soon as you can.
Symptoms=Male reproductive system
Enlarge image
Symptoms of scrotal masses vary. Some cause pain and others don't. It depends on the cause. Symptoms of a scrotal mass might include:
An unusual lump.
Sudden pain.
Dull aching or a feeling of heaviness in the scrotum.
Pain that spreads all over the groin, stomach area or lower back.
A tender, swollen or hardened testicle or epididymis (ep-ih-DID-uh-miss). The epididymis is the soft, comma-shaped tube above and behind the testicle that stores and transports sperm.
Swelling in the scrotum.
A change in color of the skin of the scrotum.
Upset stomach or vomiting.
If an infection causes a scrotal mass, symptoms also might include:
Fever.
Needing to pee often.
Pus or blood in the urine.
Risk Factors
Things that can raise the risk of a scrotal mass include:
Undescended testicle. An undescended testicle doesn't leave the stomach area and move down into the scrotum before birth or in the months afterward.
Conditions present at birth. Some people are born with irregular changes in the testicles, penis or kidneys. These might raise the risk of a scrotal mass and testicular cancer later in life.
History of testicular cancer. If you've had cancer in one testicle, your risk of getting cancer in the other testicle is higher. Having a parent or a sibling who's had testicular cancer also raises your risk.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Seborrheic dermatitis
Home Remedies
You may be able to control seborrheic dermatitis with lifestyle changes and home remedies. Many of these are sold in nonprescription forms. You may need to try different products or a combination of products before your condition improves.
The best approach for you depends on your skin type, hair-grooming practices and your symptoms. But even if your condition clears up, it's likely to come back at some point. Watch for the symptoms and resume treating the condition when it recurs. Or use nonprescription antidandruff products in your self-care routine to prevent flare-ups.
Wash your scalp regularly
If regular shampoo doesn't help with dandruff, try nonprescription dandruff shampoos. They are classified according to the active ingredient they contain:
Pyrithione zinc (DermaZinc, Head & Shoulders, others), also sold as bar soap
Selenium sulfide (Head & Shoulders, Selsun Blue, others)
Ketoconazole 1% (Nizoral A-D)
Tar (Denorex Extra Strength, DHS Tar, others)
Salicylic acid (Denorex, DHS Sal, others)
How often you shampoo or apply other antifungal products will depend on your hair-grooming practices and symptoms. Medicated shampoos can be used once a day or 2 to 3 times a week for several weeks. After your symptoms clear up, use a medicated shampoo just once a week or once every two weeks. This will help prevent a relapse. Shampoo that contains tar or selenium sulfide can discolor light-colored hair.
Sometimes a shampoo that has helped loses its effectiveness over time. If that's the case, try alternating between two or more types. Be sure to leave your shampoo on for the full recommended time — this allows its ingredients to work. Then rinse. These shampoos may be rubbed gently on the face, ears and chest and rinsed off well.
Other home remedies
The following nonprescription treatments and self-care tips may help you control seborrheic dermatitis:
Soften and remove scales from your hair. Apply mineral oil, peanut oil or olive oil to your scalp. Leave it in for 1 to 3 hours. Then comb or brush your hair and wash it.
Wash your skin regularly. Use warm, not hot, water and a gentle soap or nonsoap cleanser. Rinse thoroughly. Pat dry and apply a moisturizer while your skin is still damp.
Apply a medicated cream. First try a mild corticosteroid cream, foam, ointment or oil (Scalpicin Scalp Itch) on affected areas, keeping it away from the eyes. If that doesn't work, try the antifungal cream ketoconazole.
Don't use styling products. Stop using hair sprays, gels and other styling products while you're treating the condition.
Don't use skin and hair products that contain alcohol. These can cause the disease to flare up.
If you have a beard or mustache, shampoo facial hair regularly. Seborrheic dermatitis can be worse under mustaches and beards. Shampoo with 1% ketoconazole daily until your symptoms improve. Then switch to shampooing once a week or once every two weeks. Or shaving might ease your symptoms.
Gently clean your eyelids. If your eyelids are inflamed or scaly, wash them each night. Use a few drops of baby shampoo mixed with two capfuls of warm water. Wipe away scales with a cotton swab. Warm, damp cloths pressed to your eyelids also may help.
Gently wash your baby's scalp. If your infant has mild cradle cap, wash the scalp with a mild baby shampoo once a day. Gently loosen the scales with a cloth or an infant hairbrush before rinsing out the shampoo. If scaling persists, first apply mineral oil or olive oil to the scalp for an hour or two. Cradle cap usually disappears in a few weeks or months.
Symptoms=Seborrheic dermatitis signs and symptoms may include:
Flaking skin (dandruff) on your scalp, hair, eyebrows, beard or mustache
Patches of greasy skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales or crust on the scalp, face, sides of the nose, eyebrows, ears, eyelids, chest, armpits, groin area or under the breasts
Rash that may look darker or lighter in people with brown or Black skin and redder in those with white skin
Ring-shaped (annular) rash, for a type called petaloid seborrheic dermatitis
Itchiness (pruritus)
The signs and symptoms of seborrheic dermatitis tend to flare with stress, fatigue or a change of season.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for seborrheic dermatitis include:
Stress
Fatigue
A change of season
Nervous system conditions, such as Parkinson's disease
Having a mental health condition, such as depression
Immune system disorders, such as HIV infection
Recovery from stressful medical conditions, such as a heart attack
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Seizures
Home Remedies
Mayo Clinic Connect: Epilepsy & Seizures
Mayo Clinic Connect: Brain & Nervous System
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your health care professional. If you feel that your medicine should be changed, talk about it with your care professional.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Be active. Exercising and being active may help keep you physically healthy and reduce depression. Make sure to drink enough water and rest if you get tired during exercise.
Make healthy life choices. Managing stress, limiting alcohol and not smoking all factor into a healthy lifestyle.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury, but if you have recurrent seizures, injury is a possibility. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off of them. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you do fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers.
Consider a seizure detection device. The Food and Drug Administration has cleared a watch-like prescription device that can detect tonic-clonic seizures (Embrace2). The device alerts loved ones or caregivers so that they can check on you and ensure your safety. Talk with your health care professional to decide if using this type of device might be appropriate for you.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers so that they know what to do if you have a seizure.
To help someone during a seizure, take these steps:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight neckwear.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical help arrives.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Stay calm.
Symptoms=Symptoms vary based on the type of seizure. They also can range from mild to severe. Seizure symptoms may include:
Temporary confusion.
A staring spell.
Jerking movements of the arms and legs that can't be controlled.
Loss of consciousness or awareness.
Cognitive or emotional changes. They may include fear, anxiety or a feeling that you've already lived this moment, known as deja vu.
A classification system distinguishes the different types of seizures. Health care professionals typically classify seizures as focal or generalized. Seizures are classified based on how and where the brain activity causing the seizure began. If health care professionals don't know how the seizures began, they may classify the seizures as unknown onset.
Focal seizures
Focal seizures result from electrical activity in one area of the brain. This type of seizure can occur with or without loss of consciousness:
Focal seizures with impaired awareness. These seizures involve a change or loss of consciousness or awareness that feels like being in a dream. People having these types of seizures may seem awake but they stare into space and don't respond to their environment. They may perform repetitive movements such as hand rubbing, mouth movements, repeating certain words or walking in circles. They may not remember the seizure or even know that it occurred.
Focal seizures without impaired awareness. These seizures may alter emotions. They also may change the way things look, smell, feel, taste or sound. But the seizures don't cause a loss of consciousness.
During these types of seizures, people may suddenly feel angry, joyful or sad. Some people have nausea or unusual feelings that are hard to describe. These seizures may result in trouble speaking and involuntary jerking of a body part such as an arm or a leg. They also may cause sudden sensory symptoms such as tingling, dizziness and seeing flashing lights.
Symptoms of focal seizures may be confused with other conditions of the brain or nervous system. They include migraine, narcolepsy or mental illness.
Generalized seizures
Seizures that appear to involve all areas of the brain from the time they start are called generalized seizures. Different types of generalized seizures include:
Absence seizures. Absence seizures, formerly known as petit mal seizures, often occur in children. Absence seizures typically cause a person to stare into space or make subtle body movements such as eye blinking or lip smacking. They usually last for 5 to 10 seconds. These seizures may happen up to hundreds of times a day. They may occur in clusters and can cause a brief loss of awareness.
Tonic seizures. Tonic seizures cause stiffening of the muscles. These seizures usually affect muscles in the back, arms and legs. People who experience these seizures may lose consciousness and fall to the ground.
Atonic seizures. Atonic seizures, also known as drop seizures, cause a loss of muscle control. People having this type of seizure may suddenly fall down or drop their head.
Clonic seizures. Clonic seizures are associated with repeated jerking muscle movements. These seizures usually affect the neck, face and arms on both sides of the body.
Myoclonic seizures. Myoclonic seizures usually appear as sudden brief jerks or twitches of the arms and legs. There is often no loss of consciousness.
Tonic-clonic seizures. Tonic-clonic seizures, previously known as grand mal seizures, are the most dramatic type of epileptic seizure. They can cause a sudden loss of consciousness, body stiffening and shaking. They sometimes cause people to lose control of their bladder or to bite their tongue. They may last for several minutes. Tonic-clonic seizures also may start as focal seizures that then spread to involve most or all of the brain.
Seizure stages
Seizures can have a beginning phase, middle phase and end phase.
Prodrome. This is the earliest warning that a seizure may occur, but it is not part of the seizure itself. During the prodrome, people may have a hard-to-describe sense that a seizure may happen. They also may have changes in behavior. This can happen in the hours or even days before a seizure.
The prodrome stage may include an aura. The aura is the first symptom of a seizure. Symptoms during the aura may include the feeling that a person or place is familiar, known as deja vu, or a feeling that a person or place is not familiar. Or people may simply feel strange, feel fear or panic, or even have pleasant feelings. Symptoms also may include smells, sounds, tastes, blurred vision or racing thoughts. The prodrome may include a headache, numbness or tingling, nausea, or dizziness.
Many people with seizures have a prodrome or aura as part of their experience, but some people do not.
Ictal. The middle part of a seizure is called the ictal phase. The ictal phase spans the time from the first symptom to the end of the seizure. Symptoms of the ictal phase depend on the type of seizure.
Postictal. This is the period after a seizure during recovery. The postictal stage can last minutes or hours. Some people recover quickly while others take hours. The length of the postictal stage depends on the type of seizure and what part of the brain was affected.
During this phase, people may be slow to respond, have trouble with memory, and have trouble talking or writing. They may feel sleepy, confused, dizzy, sad, scared, anxious or frustrated. They also may have nausea, a headache, weakness, feel thirsty or have a loss of bladder control.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Self-injury/cutting
Home Remedies
In addition to professional treatment, here are some important self-care tips:
Follow your treatment plan. Keep therapy appointments. Practice and use coping skills learned in therapy. Take any prescribed medicine as directed.
Recognize the situations or feelings that might trigger your desire to self-injure. Make a plan for other ways to soothe or distract yourself or to get support, so you're ready the next time you feel the urge to self-injure.
Ask for help. Keep your mental health provider's phone number handy. Tell your provider about all incidents related to self-injury. Choose a trusted family member or friend as the person you'll immediately contact if you have an urge to self-injure or if self-injury happens.
Take care of yourself. Learn how to include physical activity and relaxation exercises as a regular part of your daily routine. Eat healthy. Ask your health care provider for advice if you have sleep problems, which can have a big impact on behavior.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. They affect your ability to make good decisions and can put you at risk of self-injury.
Take care of your wounds if you injure yourself or seek medical treatment if needed. Call a trusted family member or friend for help and support. Don't share items used for self-injury. That raises the risk of infectious diseases.
Symptoms=Symptoms of self-injury may include:
Scars, often in patterns.
Fresh cuts, scratches, bruises, bite marks or other wounds.
Excessive rubbing of an area to create a burn.
Keeping sharp objects or other items used for self-injury on hand.
Wearing long sleeves or long pants to hide self-injury, even in hot weather.
Frequent reports of accidental injury.
Difficulties in relationships with others.
Behaviors and emotions that change quickly and are impulsive, intense and unexpected.
Talk of helplessness, hopelessness or worthlessness.
Forms of self-injury
Self-injury mostly happens in private. Usually, it's done in a controlled manner or the same way each time, which often leaves a pattern on the skin. Examples of self-harm include:
Cutting, scratching or stabbing with a sharp object, one of the most common methods.
Burning with lit matches, cigarettes or heated, sharp objects such as knives.
Carving words or symbols on the skin.
Self-hitting, punching, biting or head banging.
Piercing the skin with sharp objects.
Inserting objects under the skin.
Most frequently, the arms, legs, chest and belly are the targets of self-injury. But any area of the body may be a target, sometimes using more than one method.
Becoming upset can trigger urges to self-injure. Many people self-injure only a few times and then stop. But for others, self-injury can become a longer term, repeated behavior.
Risk Factors
Teenagers and young adults are most likely to self-injure, but those in other age groups do it, too. Self-injury often starts in the preteen or early teen years, when emotional changes happen fast, often and unexpectedly. During this time, teens also face increasing peer pressure, loneliness, and conflicts with parents or other authority figures.
Certain factors may increase the risk of self-injury, including:
Having friends who self-injure. Having friends who intentionally harm themselves makes it more likely for someone to begin self-injuring.
Life issues. Past experiences of neglect, sexual, physical or emotional abuse, or other traumatic events may increase the risk of self-injury. So can growing up and remaining in an unstable family environment. Other risk factors include questioning personal or sexual identity and social isolation.
Mental health issues. Being highly self-critical and struggling with problem solving increases the risk of self-injury. Also, self-injury is commonly linked with certain mental health conditions, such as borderline personality disorder, depression, anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder and eating disorders.
Alcohol or drug use. Being under the influence of alcohol or recreational drugs may increase the risk of self-injury.
Prevention
There is no sure way to prevent someone's self-injuring behavior. But reducing the risk of self-injury includes strategies that involve both individuals and communities. Parents, family members, teachers, school nurses, coaches or friends can help.
Identify someone at risk and offer help. Someone at risk can be taught how to better manage stress and deal with life's problems. The person can learn healthy coping skills to use during periods of distress.
Encourage supportive social networks. Feeling lonely and disconnected may be a part of self-injury. Helping someone form healthy connections to people who don't self-injure can improve relationship and communication skills.
Raise awareness. Learn about the warning signs of self-injury and what to do when you suspect it.
Encourage friends to seek help. Peers tend to be loyal to their friends. Encourage children, teens and young adults to avoid secrecy and reach out for help if they have a concern about a friend or family member.
Talk about media influence. News media, music and other highly visible outlets that feature self-injury may nudge children and young adults with mental or emotional issues to experiment. Teaching children critical thinking skills about the influences around them might reduce the harmful impact.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Separation anxiety disorder
Home Remedies
While separation anxiety disorder gets better with professional treatment, you also can take these steps to help ease your child's separation anxiety:
Learn about your child's separation anxiety disorder. Talk to your child's mental health professional to learn about the condition and help your child understand it.
Follow the treatment plan. Keep the therapy appointments for your child. Consistency makes a big difference.
Take action. Learn what triggers your child's anxiety. Practice the skills learned from the mental health professional so you're ready to deal with your child's anxious feelings during separations.
Symptoms=Separation anxiety disorder is diagnosed when symptoms are much more than expected for someone's developmental age and cause major distress or problems doing daily activities. Symptoms may include:
Repeated and intense distress when thinking about separation or when away from home or loved ones. This may include being clingy or having tantrums about separation that last longer or are more severe than other kids of the same age.
Constant, intense worry about losing a parent or other loved one to an illness, death, or a disaster or harm coming to them.
Constant worry that something bad will happen, such as being lost or kidnapped, causing separation from parents or other loved ones.
Not wanting to or refusing to be away from home because of fear of separation.
Not wanting to be home alone or somewhere without a parent or other loved one close by, if the child has reached an age where being alone might be expected.
Not wanting to or refusing to sleep away from home or to go to sleep without a parent or other loved one nearby, if the child has reached an age where these activities might be expected.
Repeated nightmares about separation.
Repeated complaints of headaches, stomachaches, or other symptoms during or before separation from a parent or other loved one.
Separation anxiety disorder may occur along with panic attacks. Panic attacks are repeated bouts of sudden feelings of intense anxiety and fear or terror that reach a peak within minutes.
Risk Factors
Separation anxiety disorder most often begins in childhood. But it may continue into the teenage years and sometimes into adulthood.
Risk factors may include:
Life stresses or loss that result in separation. Examples include the illness or death of a loved one, loss of a beloved pet, divorce of parents, or moving or going away to school.
Family history. Having blood relatives who have anxiety symptoms or an anxiety disorder may increase the risk of having separation anxiety disorder.
Situational issues. Experiencing some type of disaster or traumatic life event may increase the risk of separation anxiety disorder.
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent separation anxiety disorder in your child, but these suggestions may help.
Get professional advice as soon as possible if you're concerned that your child's anxiety is much worse than others at the same developmental stage. Early diagnosis and treatment can help lessen anxiety symptoms and keep the condition from getting worse.
Follow the treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of symptoms.
Get your own evidence-based treatment and support if you have anxiety, depression or other mental health concerns, so that you can model healthy coping skills for your child.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sjogren's syndrome
Home Remedies
Many Sjogren's syndrome symptoms respond well to self-care measures.
To relieve dry eyes:
Use artificial tears, an eye lubricant or both. Artificial tears — in eyedrop form — and eye lubricants — in eyedrop, gel or ointment form — help relieve the discomfort of dry eyes. You don't have to apply eye lubricants as often as artificial tears. Because of their thicker consistency, eye lubricants can blur your vision and collect on your eyelashes, so you might want to use them only overnight.
Your doctor might recommend artificial tears without preservatives, which can irritate the eyes of people with dry eye syndrome.
Increase humidity. Increasing the indoor humidity and reducing your exposure to blowing air can help keep your eyes and mouth from getting uncomfortably dry. For example, avoid sitting in front of a fan or air conditioning vent, and wear goggles or protective eyewear when you go outdoors.
To help with dry mouth:
Don't smoke. Smoking can irritate and dry out your mouth.
Increase your fluid intake. Take sips of fluids, particularly water, throughout the day. Avoid drinking coffee or alcohol since they can worsen dry mouth symptoms. Also avoid acidic beverages such as colas and some sports drinks because the acid can harm the enamel of your teeth.
Stimulate saliva flow. Sugarless gum or citrus-flavored hard candies can boost saliva flow. Because Sjogren's syndrome increases your risk of dental cavities, limit sweets, especially between meals.
Try artificial saliva. Saliva replacement products often work better than plain water because they contain a lubricant that helps your mouth stay moist longer. These products come as a spray or lozenge.
Use nasal saline spray. A nasal saline spray can help moisturize and clear nasal passages so that you can breathe freely through your nose. A dry, stuffy nose can increase mouth breathing.
Oral health
Dry mouth increases your risk of dental cavities and tooth loss. To help prevent those types of problems:
Brush your teeth and floss after every meal
Schedule regular dental appointments, at least every six months
Use daily topical fluoride treatments and antimicrobial mouthwashes
Other areas of dryness
If dry skin is a problem, avoid hot water when you bathe and shower. Pat your skin — don't rub — with a towel, and apply moisturizer when your skin is still damp. Use rubber gloves when doing dishes or housecleaning. Vaginal moisturizers and lubricants help women who have vaginal dryness.
Symptoms=Salivary glands
Enlarge image
The two main symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome are:
Dry eyes. Your eyes might burn, itch or feel gritty — as if there's sand in them.
Dry mouth. Your mouth might feel like it's full of cotton, making it difficult to swallow or speak.
Some people with Sjogren's syndrome also have one or more of the following:
Joint pain, swelling and stiffness
Swollen salivary glands — particularly the set located behind your jaw and in front of your ears
Skin rashes or dry skin
Vaginal dryness
Persistent dry cough
Prolonged fatigue
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Sjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder. Your immune system mistakenly attacks your body's own cells and tissues.
Scientists aren't certain why some people develop Sjogren's syndrome. Certain genes put people at higher risk of the disorder, but it appears that a triggering mechanism — such as infection with a particular virus or strain of bacteria — is also necessary.
In Sjogren's syndrome, your immune system first targets the glands that make tears and saliva. But it can also damage other parts of your body, such as:
Joints
Thyroid
Kidneys
Liver
Lungs
Skin
Nerves
Risk factors
Sjogren's syndrome typically occurs in people with one or more known risk factors, including:
Age. Sjogren's syndrome is usually diagnosed in people older than 40.
Sex. Women are much more likely to have Sjogren's syndrome.
Rheumatic disease. It's common for people who have Sjogren's syndrome to also have a rheumatic disease — such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Complications
The most common complications of Sjogren's syndrome involve your eyes and mouth.
Dental cavities. Because saliva helps protect the teeth from the bacteria that cause cavities, you're more prone to developing cavities if your mouth is dry.
Yeast infections. People with Sjogren's syndrome are much more likely to develop oral thrush, a yeast infection in the mouth.
Vision problems. Dry eyes can lead to light sensitivity, blurred vision and corneal damage.
Less common complications might affect:
Lungs, kidneys or liver. Inflammation can cause pneumonia, bronchitis or other problems in your lungs; lead to problems with kidney function; and cause hepatitis or cirrhosis in your liver.
Lymph nodes. A small percentage of people with Sjogren's syndrome develop cancer of the lymph nodes (lymphoma).
Nerves. You might develop numbness, tingling and burning in your hands and feet (peripheral neuropathy).



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Sjogren's syndrome typically occurs in people with one or more known risk factors, including:
Age. Sjogren's syndrome is usually diagnosed in people older than 40.
Sex. Women are much more likely to have Sjogren's syndrome.
Rheumatic disease. It's common for people who have Sjogren's syndrome to also have a rheumatic disease — such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Skin Rash
Home Remedies
Apply aloe vera gel for cooling effects.Oatmeal baths to reduce inflammation.Coconut oil to soothe irritation.Avoid scratching and wear loose clothing.
Symptoms=Common symptoms include itching, burning, or soreness in the affected area. Skin rashes can be caused by a variety of factors, including allergic reactions, infections, irritants, heat, or underlying conditions such as eczema or psoriasis. The appearance and severity of a rash can vary widely, and it may also be accompanied by other symptoms like swelling or changes in skin texture.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sleep apnea
Home Remedies
In some cases, self-care might be a way for you to deal with obstructive sleep apnea and possibly central sleep apnea. Try these tips:
Lose excess weight. Even a slight weight loss might help relieve constriction of your throat. In some cases, sleep apnea can resolve if you return to a healthy weight, but it can recur if you regain the weight.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help ease the symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea even without weight loss. Try to get 30 minutes of moderate activity, such as a brisk walk, most days of the week.
Avoid alcohol and certain medicines such as tranquilizers and sleeping pills. These relax the muscles in the back of your throat, interfering with breathing.
Sleep on your side or abdomen rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway. To keep from rolling onto your back while you sleep, try attaching a tennis ball to the back of your pajama top. There are also commercial devices that vibrate when you roll onto your back in sleep.
Don't smoke. If you're a smoker, look for resources to help you quit.
Symptoms=The symptoms of obstructive and central sleep apneas overlap, sometimes making it difficult to determine which type you have. The most common symptoms of obstructive and central sleep apneas include:
Loud snoring.
Episodes in which you stop breathing during sleep — which would be reported by another person.
Gasping for air during sleep.
Awakening with a dry mouth.
Morning headache.
Difficulty staying asleep, known as insomnia.
Excessive daytime sleepiness, known as hypersomnia.
Difficulty paying attention while awake.
Irritability.
Risk Factors
Sleep apnea can affect anyone, even children. But certain factors increase your risk.
Obstructive sleep apnea
Factors that increase the risk of this form of sleep apnea include:
Excess weight. Obesity greatly increases the risk of OSA. Fat deposits around your upper airway can obstruct your breathing.
Neck circumference. People with thicker necks might have narrower airways.
A narrowed airway. You might have inherited a narrow throat. Tonsils or adenoids also can enlarge and block the airway, particularly in children.
Being male. Men are 2 to 3 times more likely to have sleep apnea than are women. However, women increase their risk if they're overweight or if they've gone through menopause.
Being older. Sleep apnea occurs significantly more often in older adults.
Family history. Having family members with sleep apnea might increase your risk.
Use of alcohol, sedatives or tranquilizers. These substances relax the muscles in your throat, which can worsen obstructive sleep apnea.
Smoking. Smokers are three times more likely to have obstructive sleep apnea than are people who've never smoked. Smoking can increase the amount of inflammation and fluid retention in the upper airway.
Nasal congestion. If you have trouble breathing through your nose — whether from an anatomical problem or allergies — you're more likely to develop obstructive sleep apnea.
Medical conditions. Congestive heart failure, high blood pressure and type 2 diabetes are some of the conditions that may increase the risk of obstructive sleep apnea. Polycystic ovary syndrome, hormonal disorders, prior stroke and chronic lung diseases such as asthma also can increase risk.
Central sleep apnea
Risk factors for this form of sleep apnea include:
Being older. Middle-aged and older people have a higher risk of central sleep apnea.
Being male. Central sleep apnea is more common in men than it is in women.
Heart disorders. Having congestive heart failure increases the risk.
Using narcotic pain medicines. Opioid medicines, especially long-acting ones such as methadone, increase the risk of central sleep apnea.
Stroke. Having had a stroke increases the risk of central sleep apnea.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sleep terrors (night terrors)
Home Remedies
If sleep terrors are a problem for you or your child, here are some tips:
Get enough sleep. Extreme tiredness can contribute to sleep terrors. If you're not getting enough sleep, try an earlier bedtime and a more regular sleep schedule. Sometimes a short nap may help. If possible, avoid noises or other stimuli that could interrupt sleep.
Establish a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. Do quiet, calming activities before bed. Read books, do puzzles or soak in a warm bath. Meditation or relaxation exercises may help too. Make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep. Avoid caffeine close to bedtime.
Make the area safe. To help prevent injury, close and lock all windows and outside doors at night. You might even lock inside doors or put alarms or bells on them. Block doorways or stairways with a gate. Move electrical cords or other objects that might be a tripping hazard. Don't use bunk beds, if possible. Place any sharp or fragile objects out of reach. Also, lock up all weapons.
Put stress in its place. Identify the things that cause stress. Think of ways to handle the stress. If your child seems anxious or stressed, talk about what's bothering your child. A mental health professional can help.
Offer comfort. If your child has a sleep terror, consider simply waiting it out. It may be upsetting to watch, but it won't harm your child. You might cuddle and gently soothe your child. Then try to get your child back into bed. Speak softly and calmly. Don't shout. Trying to wake your child or keep your child from moving may make things worse. Usually the event will shortly stop on its own.
Look for a pattern. If your child has sleep terrors, keep a sleep diary. For a few weeks, note how many minutes after bedtime a sleep terror occurs. If the timing is fairly consistent, anticipatory awakenings may help.
Symptoms=Sleep terrors differ from nightmares. A nightmare is a bad dream. The person who has a nightmare wakes up from the dream and may remember details. A person who has a sleep terror remains asleep. Children usually don't remember anything about their sleep terrors in the morning. Adults may recall part of a dream they had during the sleep terrors.
Sleep terrors generally happen in the first part of sleep time, and rarely during naps. A sleep terror may lead to sleepwalking.
During a sleep terror, a person may:
Start by screaming, shouting or crying.
Sit up in bed and look scared.
Stare wide-eyed.
Sweat, breathe heavily, and have a racing pulse, flushed face and enlarged pupils.
Kick and thrash.
Be hard to wake up and be confused if awakened.
Not be comforted or soothed.
Have no or little memory of the event the next morning.
Possibly, get out of bed and run around the house or have aggressive behavior if blocked or held back.
Risk Factors
Sleep terrors are more common if family members have a history of sleep terrors or sleepwalking.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sleepwalking
Home Remedies
If sleepwalking is a problem for you or your child, try to:
Make the environment safe. If sleepwalking has led to injuries or may do so, take precautions. Close and lock all windows and exterior doors before bedtime. You might even lock interior doors or place alarms or bells on the doors. Block doorways or stairways with a gate. Move electrical cords and other tripping hazards out of the way. Sleep in a ground-floor bedroom, if possible. Place sharp or fragile objects out of reach, and lock up all weapons. If your child sleepwalks, avoid bunk beds for sleeping.
Gently lead people who sleepwalk to bed. You don't need to wake them up. Although it isn't dangerous to be awakened, it can be disruptive if they become confused and possibly agitated.
Get enough sleep. Being very tired can lead to sleepwalking. If you don't get enough sleep — at least seven hours each night — try to go to bed earlier or take up a more regular sleep schedule. Or take a short nap, which is especially helpful for toddlers. If possible, avoid noises while sleeping or anything else that could interrupt sleep.
Have a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. Do quiet, calming activities before bed, such as reading books, doing puzzles or soaking in a warm bath. Meditation or relaxation exercises may help too. Make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep.
Put stress in its place. Identify the issues that cause stress and ways to handle the stress. Talk about what's bothering you. Or if your child sleepwalks and seems anxious or stressed, talk with your child about any concerns. A mental health professional can help.
Look for a pattern. For several nights, note ― or have another person in your home note ― how many minutes after bedtime a bout of sleepwalking occurs. If the timing is fairly consistent, this information could help plan anticipatory awakenings.
Stay away from alcohol. Drinking alcohol can interfere with a good night's sleep and may cause sleepwalking.
Symptoms=Sleepwalking usually occurs early in the night — often 1 to 2 hours after falling asleep. It isn't likely to happen during naps, but it is possible. A bout of sleepwalking can occur rarely or often. A bout generally lasts several minutes, but it can last longer.
People who sleepwalk may:
Get out of bed and walk around.
Sit up in bed and open their eyes.
Have a glazed, glassy-eyed expression.
Not respond or talk to others.
Be hard to wake up.
Be confused for a short time after waking up.
Not remember in the morning that they sleepwalked.
Have problems functioning during the day because of disturbed sleep.
Also have sleep terrors that cause screaming and waving of arms and legs.
Sometimes, people who sleepwalk will:
Do routine activities, such as getting dressed, talking or eating.
Leave the house.
Drive a car.
Take part in unusual behavior, such as passing urine in a closet.
Take part in sexual activity without being aware of it.
Get injured, such as by falling down the stairs or jumping out a window.
Become violent while briefly confused after waking up or once in a while sleepwalking.
Risk Factors
Factors that may raise the risk of sleepwalking include:
Genetics. Sleepwalking appears to run in families. It's more common if one parent has a history of sleepwalking, and much more common if both parents have a history of the sleep disorder.
Age. Sleepwalking occurs more often in children than adults. When it starts in an adult, it's more likely related to other underlying conditions.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Small bowel prolapse (enterocele)
Home Remedies
Depending on the severity of your condition, these self-care measures may provide the symptom relief you need:
Perform Kegel exercises to strengthen pelvic muscles and support weakened vaginal tissues.
Avoid constipation by drinking plenty of fluids and eating high-fiber foods, such as whole grains, and fresh fruits and vegetables.
Avoid heavy lifting.
Try to control coughing.
Lose weight if you're overweight or obese.
Avoid bearing down to move your bowels. Rely on your natural colorectal function to empty your lower bowel.
Quit smoking.
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises strengthen your pelvic floor muscles, which, in part, support the uterus, bladder and bowel. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for your pelvic organs, prevents prolapse from worsening and relieves symptoms associated with pelvic organ prolapse.
To perform Kegel exercises, follow these steps:
Tighten (contract) your pelvic floor muscles — the muscles you use to stop urinating.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, then relax for five seconds. (If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.)
Work up to holding the contraction for 10 seconds at a time.
Aim for at least three sets of 10 repetitions each day.
Ask your doctor for feedback on whether you're using the right muscles. Kegel exercises may be most successful when they're taught by a physical therapist and reinforced with biofeedback. Biofeedback involves using monitoring devices that help ensure you're tightening the proper muscles, with optimal intensity and length of time.
Once you've learned the proper method, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether you're sitting at your desk or relaxing on the couch.
Symptoms=Mild small bowel prolapse may produce no signs or symptoms. However, if you have significant prolapse, you might experience:
A pulling sensation in your pelvis that eases when you lie down
A feeling of pelvic fullness, pressure or pain
Low back pain that eases when you lie down
A soft bulge of tissue in your vagina
Vaginal discomfort and painful intercourse (dyspareunia)
Many women with small bowel prolapse also experience prolapse of other pelvic organs, such as the bladder, uterus or rectum.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing small bowel prolapse include:
Pregnancy and childbirth. Vaginal delivery of one or more children contributes to the weakening of your pelvic floor support structures, increasing your risk of prolapse. The more pregnancies you have, the greater your risk of developing any type of pelvic organ prolapse. Women who have only cesarean deliveries are less likely to develop prolapse.
Age. Small bowel prolapse and other types of pelvic organ prolapse occur more often with increasing age. As you get older, you tend to lose muscle mass and muscle strength — in your pelvic muscles as well as other muscles.
Pelvic surgery. Removal of your uterus (hysterectomy) or surgical procedures to treat incontinence may increase your risk of developing small bowel prolapse.
Increased abdominal pressure. Being overweight increases pressure inside your abdomen, which increases your risk of developing small bowel prolapse. Other factors that increase pressure include ongoing (chronic) cough and straining during bowel movements.
Smoking. Smoking is associated with developing prolapse because smokers frequently cough, increasing abdominal pressure.
Race. For unknown reasons, Hispanic and white women are at higher risk of developing pelvic organ prolapse.
Connective tissue disorders. You may be genetically prone to prolapse due to weaker connective tissues in your pelvic area, making you naturally more susceptible to small bowel prolapse and other types of pelvic organ prolapse.
Prevention
You may be able to lower your chances of small bowel prolapse with these strategies:
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing some weight can decrease the pressure inside your abdomen.
Prevent constipation. Eat high-fiber foods, drink plenty of fluids and exercise regularly to help prevent having to strain during bowel movements.
Treat a chronic cough. Constant coughing increases abdominal pressure. See your doctor to ask about treatment if you have an ongoing (chronic) cough.
Quit smoking. Smoking contributes to chronic coughing.
Avoid heavy lifting. Lifting heavy objects increases abdominal pressure.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
You may be able to lower your chances of small bowel prolapse with these strategies:
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing some weight can decrease the pressure inside your abdomen.
Prevent constipation. Eat high-fiber foods, drink plenty of fluids and exercise regularly to help prevent having to strain during bowel movements.
Treat a chronic cough. Constant coughing increases abdominal pressure. See your doctor to ask about treatment if you have an ongoing (chronic) cough.
Quit smoking. Smoking contributes to chronic coughing.
Avoid heavy lifting. Lifting heavy objects increases abdominal pressure.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/28/ds00765_im01933_mcdc7_enterocelethu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Snoring
Home Remedies
To prevent or quiet snoring, try these tips:
If you're overweight, lose weight. People who are overweight may have extra tissues in the throat that contribute to snoring. Losing weight can help reduce snoring.
Sleep on your side. Lying on your back allows your tongue to fall backward into your throat, narrowing your airway and partially obstructing airflow. Try sleeping on your side. If you find that you always end up on your back in the middle of the night, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top.
Raise the head of your bed. Raising the head of your bed by about 4 inches may help.
Nasal strips or an external nasal dilator. Adhesive strips applied to the bridge of the nose help many people increase the area of their nasal passage, enhancing their breathing. A nasal dilator is a stiffened adhesive strip applied externally across the nostrils that may help decrease airflow resistance so you breathe easier. Nasal strips and external nasal dilators aren't effective for people with OSA, however.
Treat nasal congestion or obstruction. Having allergies or a deviated septum can limit airflow through your nose. This forces you to breathe through your mouth, increasing the likelihood of snoring.
Ask your doctor about a prescription steroid spray if you have chronic congestion. To correct a structural defect in your airway, such as a deviated septum, you may need surgery.
Limit or avoid alcohol and sedatives. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages at least two hours before bedtime, and let your doctor know about your snoring before taking sedatives. Sedatives and alcohol depress your central nervous system, causing excessive relaxation of muscles, including the tissues in your throat.
Quit smoking. Smoking cessation may reduce snoring, in addition to having numerous other health benefits.
Get enough sleep. Adults should aim for at least seven hours of sleep per night. The recommended hours of sleep for children vary by age. Preschool-aged children should get 10 to 13 hours a day. School-age children need nine to 12 hours a day, and teens should have eight to 10 hours a day.
Symptoms=Snoring is often associated with a sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Not all snorers have OSA, but if snoring is accompanied by any of the following symptoms, it may be an indication to see a doctor for further evaluation for OSA:
Witnessed breathing pauses during sleep
Excessive daytime sleepiness
Difficulty concentrating
Morning headaches
Sore throat upon awakening
Restless sleep
Gasping or choking at night
High blood pressure
Chest pain at night
Your snoring is so loud it's disrupting your partner's sleep
In children, poor attention span, behavioral issues or poor performance in school
OSA often is characterized by loud snoring followed by periods of silence when breathing stops or nearly stops. Eventually, this reduction or pause in breathing may signal you to wake up, and you may awaken with a loud snort or gasping sound.
You may sleep lightly due to disrupted sleep. This pattern of breathing pauses may be repeated many times during the night.
People with obstructive sleep apnea usually experience periods when breathing slows or stops at least five times during every hour of sleep.
Risk Factors
Risk factors that may contribute to snoring include:
Being a man. Men are more likely to snore or have sleep apnea than are women.
Being overweight. People who are overweight or obese are more likely to snore or have obstructive sleep apnea.
Having a narrow airway. Some people may have a long soft palate, or large tonsils or adenoids, which can narrow the airway and cause snoring.
Drinking alcohol. Alcohol relaxes your throat muscles, increasing the risk of snoring.
Having nasal problems. If you have a structural defect in your airway, such as a deviated septum, or your nose is chronically congested, your risk of snoring is greater.
Having a family history of snoring or obstructive sleep apnea. Heredity is a potential risk factor for OSA.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Social anxiety disorder (social phobia)
Home Remedies
Although social anxiety disorder generally requires help from a medical expert or qualified psychotherapist, you can try some of these techniques to handle situations that are likely to trigger symptoms:
Learn stress-reduction skills.
Get physical exercise or be physically active on a regular basis.
Get enough sleep.
Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet.
Avoid alcohol.
Limit or avoid caffeine.
Participate in social situations by reaching out to people with whom you feel comfortable.
Practice in small steps
First, consider your fears to identify what situations cause the most anxiety. Then gradually practice these activities until they cause you less anxiety. Begin with small steps by setting daily or weekly goals in situations that aren't overwhelming. The more you practice, the less anxious you'll feel.
Consider practicing these situations:
Eat with a close relative, friend or acquaintance in a public setting.
Purposefully make eye contact and return greetings from others, or be the first to say hello.
Give someone a compliment.
Ask a retail clerk to help you find an item.
Get directions from a stranger.
Show an interest in others — ask about their homes, children, grandchildren, hobbies or travels, for instance.
Call a friend to make plans.
Prepare for social situations
At first, being social when you're feeling anxious is challenging. As difficult or painful as it may seem initially, don't avoid situations that trigger your symptoms. By regularly facing these kinds of situations, you'll continue to build and reinforce your coping skills.
These strategies can help you begin to face situations that make you nervous:
Prepare for conversation, for example, by reading about current events to identify interesting stories you can talk about.
Focus on personal qualities you like about yourself.
Practice relaxation exercises.
Learn stress management techniques.
Set realistic social goals.
Pay attention to how often the embarrassing situations you're afraid of actually take place. You may notice that the scenarios you fear usually don't come to pass.
When embarrassing situations do happen, remind yourself that your feelings will pass and you can handle them until they do. Most people around you either don't notice or don't care as much as you think, or they're more forgiving than you assume.
Avoid using alcohol to calm your nerves. It may seem like it helps temporarily, but in the long term it can make you feel even more anxious.
Symptoms=Feelings of shyness or discomfort in certain situations aren't necessarily signs of social anxiety disorder, particularly in children. Comfort levels in social situations vary, depending on personality traits and life experiences. Some people are naturally reserved and others are more outgoing.
In contrast to everyday nervousness, social anxiety disorder includes fear, anxiety and avoidance that interfere with relationships, daily routines, work, school or other activities. Social anxiety disorder typically begins in the early to mid-teens, though it can sometimes start in younger children or in adults.
Emotional and behavioral symptoms
Signs and symptoms of social anxiety disorder can include constant:
Fear of situations in which you may be judged negatively
Worry about embarrassing or humiliating yourself
Intense fear of interacting or talking with strangers
Fear that others will notice that you look anxious
Fear of physical symptoms that may cause you embarrassment, such as blushing, sweating, trembling or having a shaky voice
Avoidance of doing things or speaking to people out of fear of embarrassment
Avoidance of situations where you might be the center of attention
Anxiety in anticipation of a feared activity or event
Intense fear or anxiety during social situations
Analysis of your performance and identification of flaws in your interactions after a social situation
Expectation of the worst possible consequences from a negative experience during a social situation
For children, anxiety about interacting with adults or peers may be shown by crying, having temper tantrums, clinging to parents or refusing to speak in social situations.
Performance type of social anxiety disorder is when you experience intense fear and anxiety during speaking or performing in public but not in other types of more general social situations.
Physical symptoms
Physical signs and symptoms can sometimes accompany social anxiety disorder and may include:
Blushing
Fast heartbeat
Trembling
Sweating
Upset stomach or nausea
Trouble catching your breath
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Feeling that your mind has gone blank
Muscle tension
Avoiding common social situations
Common, everyday experiences may be hard to endure when you have social anxiety disorder, including:
Interacting with unfamiliar people or strangers
Attending parties or social gatherings
Going to work or school
Starting conversations
Making eye contact
Dating
Entering a room in which people are already seated
Returning items to a store
Eating in front of others
Using a public restroom
Social anxiety disorder symptoms can change over time. They may flare up if you're facing a lot of changes, stress or demands in your life. Although avoiding situations that produce anxiety may make you feel better in the short term, your anxiety is likely to continue over the long term if you don't get treatment.
When to see a doctor
See your doctor or a mental health professional if you fear and avoid normal social situations because they cause embarrassment, worry or panic.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Like many other mental health conditions, social anxiety disorder likely arises from a complex interaction of biological and environmental factors. Possible causes include:
Inherited traits. Anxiety disorders tend to run in families. However, it isn't entirely clear how much of this may be due to genetics and how much is due to learned behavior.
Brain structure. A structure in the brain called the amygdala (uh-MIG-duh-luh) may play a role in controlling the fear response. People who have an overactive amygdala may have a heightened fear response, causing increased anxiety in social situations.
Environment. Social anxiety disorder may be a learned behavior — some people may develop significant anxiety after an unpleasant or embarrassing social situation. Also, there may be an association between social anxiety disorder and parents who either model anxious behavior in social situations or are more controlling or overprotective of their children.
Risk factors
Several factors can increase the risk of developing social anxiety disorder, including:
Family history. You're more likely to develop social anxiety disorder if your biological parents or siblings have the condition.
Negative experiences. Children who experience teasing, bullying, rejection, ridicule or humiliation may be more prone to social anxiety disorder. In addition, other negative events in life, such as family conflict, trauma or abuse, may be associated with this disorder.
Temperament. Children who are shy, timid, withdrawn or restrained when facing new situations or people may be at greater risk.
New social or work demands. Social anxiety disorder symptoms typically start in the teenage years, but meeting new people, giving a speech in public or making an important work presentation may trigger symptoms for the first time.
Having an appearance or condition that draws attention. For example, facial disfigurement, stuttering or tremors due to Parkinson's disease can increase feelings of self-consciousness and may trigger social anxiety disorder in some people.
Complications
Left untreated, social anxiety disorder can control your life. Anxieties can interfere with work, school, relationships or enjoyment of life. This disorder can cause:
Low self-esteem
Trouble being assertive
Negative self-talk
Hypersensitivity to criticism
Poor social skills
Isolation and difficult social relationships
Low academic and employment achievement
Substance abuse, such as drinking too much alcohol
Suicide or suicide attempts
Other anxiety disorders and certain other mental health disorders, particularly major depressive disorder and substance abuse problems, often occur with social anxiety disorder.
Prevention
There's no way to predict what will cause someone to develop an anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you're anxious:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Set priorities in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy. Make sure that you spend time doing things you enjoy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even caffeine or nicotine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your health care provider or find a treatment program or support group to help you.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Several factors can increase the risk of developing social anxiety disorder, including:
Family history. You're more likely to develop social anxiety disorder if your biological parents or siblings have the condition.
Negative experiences. Children who experience teasing, bullying, rejection, ridicule or humiliation may be more prone to social anxiety disorder. In addition, other negative events in life, such as family conflict, trauma or abuse, may be associated with this disorder.
Temperament. Children who are shy, timid, withdrawn or restrained when facing new situations or people may be at greater risk.
New social or work demands. Social anxiety disorder symptoms typically start in the teenage years, but meeting new people, giving a speech in public or making an important work presentation may trigger symptoms for the first time.
Having an appearance or condition that draws attention. For example, facial disfigurement, stuttering or tremors due to Parkinson's disease can increase feelings of self-consciousness and may trigger social anxiety disorder in some people.
Prevention
There's no way to predict what will cause someone to develop an anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you're anxious:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Set priorities in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy. Make sure that you spend time doing things you enjoy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even caffeine or nicotine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your health care provider or find a treatment program or support group to help you.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Somatic symptom disorder
Home Remedies
While somatic symptom disorder benefits from professional treatment, you can take some lifestyle and self-care steps, including these:
Work with your care providers. Work with your medical care provider and mental health professional to determine a regular schedule for visits to discuss your concerns and build a trusting relationship. Also discuss setting reasonable limits on tests, evaluations and specialist referrals. Avoid seeking advice from multiple doctors or emergency room visits that can make your care more difficult to coordinate and may subject you to duplicate testing.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. Learning stress management and relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation, may help improve symptoms.
Get physically active. A graduated activity program may have a calming effect on your mood, improve your physical symptoms and help improve your physical function.
Participate in activities. Stay involved in your work and in social and family activities. Don't wait until your symptoms are resolved to participate.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. Substance use can make your care more difficult. Talk to your health care provider if you need help quitting.
Symptoms=Symptoms of somatic symptom disorder may be:
Specific sensations, such as pain or shortness of breath, or more general symptoms, such as fatigue or weakness
Unrelated to any medical cause that can be identified, or related to a medical condition such as cancer or heart disease, but more significant than what's usually expected
A single symptom, multiple symptoms or varying symptoms
Mild, moderate or severe
Pain is the most common symptom, but whatever your symptoms, you have excessive thoughts, feelings or behaviors related to those symptoms, which cause significant problems, make it difficult to function and sometimes can be disabling.
These thoughts, feelings and behaviors can include:
Constant worry about potential illness
Viewing normal physical sensations as a sign of severe physical illness
Fearing that symptoms are serious, even when there is no evidence
Thinking that physical sensations are threatening or harmful
Feeling that medical evaluation and treatment have not been adequate
Fearing that physical activity may cause damage to your body
Repeatedly checking your body for abnormalities
Frequent health care visits that don't relieve your concerns or that make them worse
Being unresponsive to medical treatment or unusually sensitive to medication side effects
Having a more severe impairment than is usually expected from a medical condition
For somatic symptom disorder, more important than the specific physical symptoms you experience is the way you interpret and react to the symptoms and how they impact your daily life.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for somatic symptom disorder include:
Having anxiety or depression
Having a medical condition or recovering from one
Being at risk of developing a medical condition, such as having a strong family history of a disease
Experiencing stressful life events, trauma or violence
Having experienced past trauma, such as childhood sexual abuse
Having a lower level of education and socio-economic status
Prevention
Little is known about how to prevent somatic symptom disorder. However, these recommendations may help.
If you have problems with anxiety or depression, seek professional help as soon as possible.
Learn to recognize when you're stressed and how this affects your body — and regularly practice stress management and relaxation techniques.
If you think you have somatic symptom disorder, get treatment early to help stop symptoms from getting worse and impairing your quality of life.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of symptoms.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sore Throat
Home Remedies
Gargling with salt water.Honey with warm tea to soothe the throat.Chamomile tea for anti-inflammatory effects.Staying hydrated to keep the throat moist.
Symptoms=Common symptoms include scratchiness, irritation, or pain, which may worsen when swallowing or talking. Sore throats can be caused by various factors, including viral infections (such as the common cold or flu), bacterial infections (like strep throat), allergies, dry air, or irritants such as smoke. In some cases, additional symptoms like fever, swollen glands, or cough may accompany a sore throat.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Specific phobias
Home Remedies
Ask your doctor or other health care professional to suggest lifestyle and other strategies to help you manage the anxiety caused by specific phobias. For example:
Mindfulness strategies may help you learn how to manage anxiety and reduce avoidance behaviors.
Relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation or yoga, may help you cope with physical symptoms of anxiety and stress.
Physical activity and exercise may help manage anxiety related to specific phobias.
More Information
Fear of public speaking: How can I overcome it?
Symptoms=A specific phobia involves a strong, lasting fear of a certain object or situation that's much greater than the actual risk. There are many types of phobias. It's common to have a specific phobia about more than one object or situation. Specific phobias also can happen along with other types of anxiety disorders.
Common types of specific phobias are fears of:
Situations, such as airplanes, driving, enclosed spaces or going to school.
Nature, such as thunderstorms, heights or the dark.
Animals or insects, such as dogs, snakes or spiders.
Blood, shots or injuries, such as needles, accidents or medical procedures.
Others, such as choking, throwing up, loud noises or clowns.
Each specific phobia has a name. Phobia comes from the Greek word "phobos," which means fear. Examples of more common names include acrophobia for the fear of heights and claustrophobia for the fear of confined spaces.
No matter what specific phobia you have, you may:
Feel intense fear, anxiety and panic right away when exposed to or even thinking about what causes your fear.
Know that your fears are not reasonable or not as big as you think they are, but you cannot control them.
Have anxiety that gets worse as the situation or object gets closer to you physically or in time.
Do everything possible to stay away from an object or situation or face it with extreme anxiety or fear.
Have trouble with daily activities because of your fear.
Have physical reactions and feelings, including sweating, rapid heartbeat, tight chest or trouble breathing.
Feel like throwing up, or you get dizzy or faint, especially around blood or injuries.
Children may have tantrums, or they may cling, cry or refuse to leave a parent's side or approach their fear.
When to see a doctor
An extreme fear can make life hard — for example, taking long flights of stairs instead of an elevator. But it is not a specific phobia unless it seriously disrupts your life. If anxiety negatively affects the way you act at work or school, or in social situations, talk with your doctor or another health care professional, or a mental health professional.
Childhood fears, such as fear of the dark, monsters or of being left alone, are common. Most children outgrow them. But if your child has an ongoing, strong fear that interferes with how they act at school or work daily, talk to your child's doctor.
The right therapy can help most people. And the sooner you ask for help, the more likely that therapy will be effective.
Request an appointment

Causes
Much is still not known about what causes specific phobias. Causes may include:
Bad experiences. Many phobias start because of a bad experience or panic attack related to a specific object or situation. Sometimes even seeing or hearing about a bad experience can be enough to trigger a phobia.
Genetics or learned behavior. There may be a link between your specific phobia and the phobia or anxiety of your parents. This could be due to a blend of genetics and learned behaviors.
Brain function and structure. Those with specific phobias trigger certain parts of the brain, while a person without these phobias does not have the same response in the brain. Also, a person with a specific phobia can have a different brain structure than a person without that specific phobia.
Risk factors
These factors may increase your risk of specific phobias:
Age. Specific phobias can first appear when you're a child, typically by age 10. But they can occur later in life too.
Your relatives. If a family member has a specific phobia or anxiety, you're more likely to develop it too. This could be something passed down to you from a blood relative. Or children may learn specific phobias by watching how a family member reacts to an object or a situation.
Your temperament. Your risk may increase if you're more sensitive to anxiety or you're more reserved or negative than what's typical.
A bad experience. A specific phobia can start when something distressing happens to you, such as being trapped in an elevator or attacked by an animal.
Learning about bad experiences. Hearing about bad experiences, such as a plane crash, can cause a specific phobia to start.
Changing your behavior. Avoidance is the most common way people cope with phobias. By doing so, their anxiety typically gets worse.
Complications
Although specific phobias may seem silly to others, they can be distressing and damaging to the people who have them. These phobias can cause problems that affect many areas of life.
They can result in:
Social isolation. Staying away from places and things that are feared can cause problems at work or school, or in connections with others. Children with these disorders are at risk of problems at school and loneliness. They also may have trouble in social situations if their behaviors are very different from their peers.
Mood disorders. Many people with specific phobias have depression and other anxiety disorders.
Substance misuse. The stress of living with a severe specific phobia may lead to misuse of drugs or alcohol.
Suicide. Some people with specific phobias may be at risk of suicide.
Strain on loved ones. To try to keep from feeling anxious, people often rely too much on being reassured by others. Sometimes this leads to others becoming too protective over the person with anxiety. For example, a parent may become too protective of a child, resulting in more stress for the parent.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
These factors may increase your risk of specific phobias:
Age. Specific phobias can first appear when you're a child, typically by age 10. But they can occur later in life too.
Your relatives. If a family member has a specific phobia or anxiety, you're more likely to develop it too. This could be something passed down to you from a blood relative. Or children may learn specific phobias by watching how a family member reacts to an object or a situation.
Your temperament. Your risk may increase if you're more sensitive to anxiety or you're more reserved or negative than what's typical.
A bad experience. A specific phobia can start when something distressing happens to you, such as being trapped in an elevator or attacked by an animal.
Learning about bad experiences. Hearing about bad experiences, such as a plane crash, can cause a specific phobia to start.
Changing your behavior. Avoidance is the most common way people cope with phobias. By doing so, their anxiety typically gets worse.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Spinal stenosis
Home Remedies
Your healthcare professional may suggest:
Pain relievers. Medicines you can buy without a prescription — such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) — can help reduce pain and swelling.
Weight loss. Losing excess weight can reduce pain by taking some stress off the lower back.
Exercise. Stretching and strengthening exercises may help relieve symptoms. Talk with your healthcare team about what exercises are safe to do at home.
Walking aids. In addition to providing stability, canes and walkers can help relieve pain by allowing you to bend forward while walking.
Symptoms=Spinal stenosis often causes no symptoms. When symptoms do happen, they start slowly and get worse over time. Symptoms depend on which part of the spine is affected.
In the lower back
Spinal stenosis in the lower back can cause pain or cramping in one or both legs. This happens when you stand for a long time or when you walk. Symptoms get better when you bend forward or sit. Some people also have back pain.
In the neck
Spinal stenosis in the neck can cause:
Numbness.
Tingling or weakness in a hand, leg, foot or arm.
Problems with walking and balance.
Neck pain.
Problems with the bowel or bladder.
Request an appointment

  From Mayo Clinic to your inbox
Sign up for free and stay up to date on research advancements, health tips, current health topics, and expertise on managing health. Click here for an email preview.
Learn more about Mayo Clinic’s use of data.
Subscribe!
Causes
Herniated disk and bone spurs on spine
Enlarge image
Spinal bones are stacked in a column from the skull to the tailbone. They protect the spinal cord, which runs through an opening called the spinal canal.
Some people are born with a small spinal canal. But most spinal stenosis occurs when something happens to reduce the amount of open space within the spine. Causes of spinal stenosis include:
Bone spurs. Wear-and-tear damage from arthritis can cause extra bone to grow on the spine. This creates bone spurs that can push into the spinal canal. Paget's disease also can cause extra bone to grow on the spine.
Herniated disks. Disks are the soft cushions that act as shock absorbers between the spinal bones. If part of the disk's soft inner material leaks out, it can press on the spinal cord or nerves.
Thick ligaments. The strong cords that help hold the bones of the spine together can become stiff and thick over time. Thick ligaments can push into the spinal canal.
Tumors. Rarely, tumors can form inside the spinal canal.
Spinal injuries. Car accidents and other trauma can cause spinal bones to break or move out of place. Swelling of nearby tissue right after back surgery also can put pressure on the spinal cord or nerves.
Risk factors
Most people with spinal stenosis are over age 50. Younger people may be at higher risk of spinal stenosis if they have scoliosis or other spinal problems.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Most people with spinal stenosis are over age 50. Younger people may be at higher risk of spinal stenosis if they have scoliosis or other spinal problems.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD)
Home Remedies
It's important to take steps to keep the heart healthy. Try these tips:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. Not smoking is the best way to reduce the risk of heart disease and its complications. Also stay away from secondhand smoke. If you need help quitting, ask your care team for strategies that can help.
Eat healthy foods. Choose whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins, such as fish and beans. Avoid or limit foods with a lot of saturated fat, trans fats, salt and sugar.
Exercise. Regular exercise helps control diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure — all risk factors for heart disease. With your provider's OK, aim for 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care provider about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you. You may be told to avoid intense lifting, competition and extreme temperatures.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much weight strains the heart. Being overweight increases the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for females and up to two drinks a day for males.
Control blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar. Ask your health care team how often you need to have your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels checked.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health problems. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to a health care professional about strategies that might help.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress.
Symptoms=Symptoms of SCAD can include:
Chest pain or pressure.
Pain in the arms, shoulders, back or jaw.
Shortness of breath.
Unusual sweating.
Extreme tiredness.
Upset stomach.
A rapid heartbeat or fluttery feeling in the chest.
Feeling dizzy.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for SCAD include:
Being female. SCAD can happen to anyone. But it tends to affect women more than men.
Childbirth. Some women who have had SCAD have recently given birth. This may be due to changes in hormones and stress on the blood vessels. SCAD has been found to occur most often in the first few weeks after delivery. But SCAD also can occur during pregnancy.
Extreme stress. SCAD can happen after extreme stress. This includes intense physical exercise and severe emotional distress.
Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). This condition causes weakening of the body's medium-sized arteries. FMD may lead to artery problems such as aneurysm or dissection. Women are more likely to have it than men.
Genetic conditions affecting connective tissue. Ehlers-Danlos and Marfan syndromes have been found to occur in people who have had SCAD.
Very high blood pressure. Severe high blood pressure can raise the risk of SCAD.
Illegal drug use. Using cocaine or other illegal drugs might increase the risk of SCAD.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Stress
Home Remedies
Practice deep breathing or meditation.Physical activities like yoga or walking.Warm baths with calming essential oils.Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Symptoms=Not found
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Stress incontinence
Home Remedies
Healthy lifestyle practices can ease symptoms of stress incontinence. These include:
Shed extra weight. If your body mass index (BMI) is 30 or higher, losing weight can help reduce the pressure on your bladder and pelvic floor muscles. Even a 10% weight loss may greatly improve stress incontinence. Talk to a member of your care team for help with weight loss.
Add fiber to your diet. Having trouble moving your bowls can add to urinary incontinence. Keeping bowel movements soft and regular eases the strain on your pelvic floor muscles. Try eating high-fiber foods to relieve and prevent constipation. High-fiber foods include whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables.
Symptoms=If you have stress incontinence, you may leak urine when you:
Cough or sneeze.
Laugh.
Bend over.
Lift something heavy.
Exercise.
Have sex.
You might not leak urine every time you do one of these things. But any activity that puts pressure on your bladder can make leaking more likely. Having a full bladder increases the chances of leaking.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase the risk of getting stress incontinence include:
Age. Physical changes that happen with age, such as muscles getting weaker, may make you more likely to get stress incontinence. But some stress incontinence can happen at any age.
Body weight. People who are overweight or obese have a higher risk of stress incontinence. Excess weight increases pressure on the abdominal and pelvic organs.
For females, risks factors also include:
Type of childbirth delivery. People who've had a vaginal delivery are more likely to have urinary incontinence than are those who had a cesarean section. Having more than one child also raises the risk.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sudden cardiac arrest
Home Remedies
Preventing sudden cardiac arrest starts with keeping the heart and blood vessels in good shape. To live a heart-healthy lifestyle:
Don't smoke.
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight.
If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation — no more than one drink a day for women and men older than 65 and no more than two drinks a day for younger men.
Eat a heart-healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Manage stress.
Training
If you live with someone who is at risk of sudden cardiac arrest, it's important that you be trained in CPR. The American Red Cross and other organizations offer courses in CPR and defibrillator use.
Being trained will help not only your loved one, but your training might help others. The more people know how to respond to a heart emergency, the greater the survival rate for sudden cardiac arrest is likely to be.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=Symptoms of sudden cardiac arrest are immediate and severe and include:
Sudden collapse.
No pulse.
No breathing.
Loss of consciousness.
Sometimes other symptoms occur before sudden cardiac arrest. These might include:
Chest discomfort.
Shortness of breath.
Weakness.
Fast-beating, fluttering or pounding heart called palpitations.
But sudden cardiac arrest often occurs with no warning.
Risk Factors
The same things that increase the risk of heart disease can raise the risk of sudden cardiac arrest. These include:
A family history of coronary artery disease.
Smoking.
High blood pressure.
High blood cholesterol.
Obesity.
Diabetes.
An inactive lifestyle.
Other things that might increase the risk of sudden cardiac arrest include:
A previous episode of sudden cardiac arrest or a family history of it.
A previous heart attack.
A personal or family history of other forms of heart disease such as heart rhythm problems, heart failure and heart problems present at birth.
Growing older — the risk of sudden cardiac arrest increases with age.
Being male.
Using illegal drugs such as cocaine or amphetamines.
Low potassium or magnesium levels.
A sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea.
Chronic kidney disease.
Prevention
Keeping the heart healthy may help prevent sudden cardiac arrest. You can do this by:
Eating healthy.
Getting regular checkups.
Not smoking or using tobacco.
Being screened for heart disease.
Controlling blood pressure and cholesterol.
Genetic tests can be done to see if you have long QT syndrome, a common cause of sudden cardiac death. Check with your insurer to see if it is covered. If you have the long QT gene, your health care provider may recommend that other family members also be tested.
If you have a known risk of cardiac arrest, your health care provider might recommend a heart device called an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). The device is placed under your collarbone.
You also might consider purchasing an automated external defibrillator (AED) for home use. Discuss this with your health care provider. AEDs help reset the heart's rhythm when a person has sudden cardiac arrest. But they can be expensive and aren't always covered by health insurance.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Suicide and suicidal thoughts
Home Remedies
There's no substitute for professional help when it comes to treating suicidal thinking and preventing suicide. However, there are a few things that may reduce suicide risk:
Avoid drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and recreational drugs can worsen suicidal thoughts. They can also make you feel less inhibited, which means you're more likely to act on your thoughts.
Form a strong support network. That may include family, friends or members of your church, synagogue or other place of worship. Religious practice has been shown to help reduce the risk of suicide.
Get active. Physical activity and exercise have been shown to reduce depression symptoms. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or taking up another form of physical activity that you enjoy.
Symptoms=Suicide warning signs or suicidal thoughts include:
Talking about suicide — for example, making statements such as "I'm going to kill myself," "I wish I were dead" or "I wish I hadn't been born"
Getting the means to take your own life, such as buying a gun or stockpiling pills
Withdrawing from social contact and wanting to be left alone
Having mood swings, such as being emotionally high one day and deeply discouraged the next
Being preoccupied with death, dying or violence
Feeling trapped or hopeless about a situation
Increasing use of alcohol or drugs
Changing normal routine, including eating or sleeping patterns
Doing risky or self-destructive things, such as using drugs or driving recklessly
Giving away belongings or getting affairs in order when there's no other logical explanation for doing this
Saying goodbye to people as if they won't be seen again
Developing personality changes or being severely anxious or agitated, particularly when experiencing some of the warning signs listed above
Warning signs aren't always obvious, and they may vary from person to person. Some people make their intentions clear, while others keep suicidal thoughts and feelings secret.
Risk Factors
Although attempted suicide is more frequent for women, men are more likely than women to complete suicide because they typically use more-lethal methods, such as a firearm.
You may be at risk of suicide if you:
Attempted suicide before
Feel hopeless, worthless, agitated, socially isolated or lonely
Experience a stressful life event, such as the loss of a loved one, military service, a breakup, or financial or legal problems
Have a substance abuse problem — alcohol and drug abuse can worsen thoughts of suicide and make you feel reckless or impulsive enough to act on your thoughts
Have suicidal thoughts and have access to firearms in your home
Have an underlying psychiatric disorder, such as major depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or bipolar disorder
Have a family history of mental disorders, substance abuse, suicide, or violence, including physical or sexual abuse
Have a medical condition that can be linked to depression and suicidal thinking, such as chronic disease, chronic pain or terminal illness
Are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender with an unsupportive family or in a hostile environment
Children and teenagers
Suicide in children and teenagers can follow stressful life events. What a young person sees as serious and insurmountable may seem minor to an adult — such as problems in school or the loss of a friendship. In some cases, a child or teen may feel suicidal due to certain life circumstances that he or she may not want to talk about, such as:
Having a psychiatric disorder, including depression
Loss or conflict with close friends or family members
History of physical or sexual abuse
Problems with alcohol or drugs
Physical or medical issues, for example, becoming pregnant or having a sexually transmitted infection
Being the victim of bullying
Being uncertain of sexual orientation
Reading or hearing an account of suicide or knowing a peer who died by suicide
If you have concerns about a friend or family member, asking about suicidal thoughts and intentions is the best way to identify risk.
Murder and suicide
In rare cases, people who are suicidal are at risk of killing others and then themselves. Known as a homicide-suicide or murder-suicide, some risk factors include:
History of conflict with a spouse or romantic partner
Current family legal or financial problems
History of mental health problems, particularly depression
Alcohol or drug abuse
Having access to a firearm
Starting antidepressants and increased suicide risk
Most antidepressants are generally safe, but the Food and Drug Administration requires that all antidepressants carry black box warnings, the strictest warnings for prescriptions. In some cases, children, teenagers and young adults under 25 may have an increase in suicidal thoughts or behavior when taking antidepressants, especially in the first few weeks after starting or when the dose is changed.
However, keep in mind that antidepressants are more likely to reduce suicide risk in the long run by improving mood.
Teen suicide prevention
Show transcript
for video Teen suicide prevention
Reach out — Preventing teen suicide
Show transcript
for video Reach out — Preventing teen suicide
Prevention
To help keep yourself from feeling suicidal:
Get the treatment you need. If you don't treat the underlying cause, your suicidal thoughts are likely to return. You may feel embarrassed to seek treatment for mental health problems, but getting the right treatment for depression, substance misuse or another underlying problem will make you feel better about life — and help keep you safe.
Establish your support network. It may be hard to talk about suicidal feelings, and your friends and family may not fully understand why you feel the way you do. Reach out anyway, and make sure the people who care about you know what's going on and are there when you need them. You may also want to get help from your place of worship, support groups or other community resources. Feeling connected and supported can help reduce suicide risk.
Remember, suicidal feelings are temporary. If you feel hopeless or that life's not worth living anymore, remember that treatment can help you regain your perspective — and life will get better. Take one step at a time and don't act impulsively.
More Information
Suicide and suicidal thoughts care at Mayo Clinic
Are you thinking about suicide? How to stay safe and find treatment
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sun allergy
Home Remedies
These steps may help relieve sun allergy symptoms:
Avoid sun exposure. Most sun allergy symptoms improve in less than a day or two if you keep the affected skin out of the sun.
Stop using medications that make you sensitive to light. If you're taking medications for other conditions, talk with your health care provider about whether you can stop taking them if they are making your skin more sensitive to the sun.
Apply moisturizers. Moisturizing skin lotions can help relieve irritation caused by dry, scaly skin.
Symptoms=Polymorphous light eruption on the chest
Enlarge image
How skin with sun allergy looks varies widely depending on the color of your skin and what's causing the symptoms. Signs and symptoms may include:
Itchiness (pruritus)
Stinging
Tiny bumps that may merge into raised patches
A flushing of the exposed area
Blisters or hives
Symptoms usually occur only on skin that has been exposed to the sun or other source of UV light. Symptoms show up within minutes to hours after sun exposure.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for having an allergic reaction to sunlight include:
Contact with certain substances. Some sun allergy symptoms are triggered when your skin is exposed to a substance and then to sunlight. Common substances responsible for this type of reaction include fragrances, disinfectants and chemicals used in some sunscreens.
Taking certain medications. A number of medications can make the skin sunburn more quickly — including tetracycline antibiotics, sulfa-based drugs and pain relievers, such as ketoprofen.
Having another skin condition. Having dermatitis increases your risk of having a sun allergy.
Having a blood relative with a sun allergy. You're more likely to have a sun allergy if you have a sibling or parent with a sun allergy.
Prevention
If you have a sun allergy or an increased sensitivity to the sun, you can help prevent a reaction by taking these steps:
Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The sun's rays are strongest during these hours. Try to schedule outdoor activities for other times. If you can't do that, limit the time you're in the sun. Seek shade when possible.
Avoid sudden exposure to lots of sunlight. Many people have sun allergy symptoms seasonally. Symptoms occur when daylight hours get longer and people are exposed to more sunlight. At these times, gradually increase the amount of time you spend outdoors so that your skin has time to adapt to increased sunlight.
Wear sunglasses and protective clothing. Long-sleeved shirts and wide-brimmed hats can help protect your skin from sun exposure. Avoid fabrics that are thin or have a loose weave — UV rays can pass through them.
Apply sunscreen. Use a water-resistant, broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring.
If you're using a product that contains physical blockers (titanium dioxide, zinc oxide), apply it over any other products you're wearing — except insect repellent. Insect repellent goes on last. Physical blockers provide the most effective protection for sensitive skin.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires all sunscreen to retain its original strength for at least three years. Check sunscreen labels for directions on storing and expiration dates. Throw away sunscreen if it's expired or more than 3 years old.
Avoid known triggers. If you know that a certain substance causes your skin reaction, such as a medication or contact with wild parsnip or limes, avoid that trigger.
Apply UV-blocking window film. Put a UV-blocking film on the windows of your home and car.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
If you have a sun allergy or an increased sensitivity to the sun, you can help prevent a reaction by taking these steps:
Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The sun's rays are strongest during these hours. Try to schedule outdoor activities for other times. If you can't do that, limit the time you're in the sun. Seek shade when possible.
Avoid sudden exposure to lots of sunlight. Many people have sun allergy symptoms seasonally. Symptoms occur when daylight hours get longer and people are exposed to more sunlight. At these times, gradually increase the amount of time you spend outdoors so that your skin has time to adapt to increased sunlight.
Wear sunglasses and protective clothing. Long-sleeved shirts and wide-brimmed hats can help protect your skin from sun exposure. Avoid fabrics that are thin or have a loose weave — UV rays can pass through them.
Apply sunscreen. Use a water-resistant, broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring.
If you're using a product that contains physical blockers (titanium dioxide, zinc oxide), apply it over any other products you're wearing — except insect repellent. Insect repellent goes on last. Physical blockers provide the most effective protection for sensitive skin.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires all sunscreen to retain its original strength for at least three years. Check sunscreen labels for directions on storing and expiration dates. Throw away sunscreen if it's expired or more than 3 years old.
Avoid known triggers. If you know that a certain substance causes your skin reaction, such as a medication or contact with wild parsnip or limes, avoid that trigger.
Apply UV-blocking window film. Put a UV-blocking film on the windows of your home and car.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Sunburn
Home Remedies
Try these self-care tips for sunburn relief:
Take a pain reliever. For pain relief, take a nonprescription pain reliever as soon as possible after getting too much sun. Examples include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). Or try a gel pain reliever that you rub on the skin.
Cool the skin. Apply to the affected skin a clean towel dampened with cool tap water. Or take a cool bath with added baking soda — about 2 ounces (60 grams) a tub. Cool the skin for about 10 minutes several times a day.
Apply a moisturizer, lotion or gel. An aloe vera lotion or gel or calamine lotion can be soothing. Try cooling the product in the refrigerator before applying. Avoid products made with alcohol.
Drink extra water for a day. This helps prevent dehydration.
Leave blisters alone. An intact blister can help the skin heal. If a blister does break, trim off the dead skin with a clean, small scissors. Gently clean the area with mild soap and water. Then apply an antibiotic ointment to the wound and cover it with a nonstick bandage.
Treat peeling skin gently. Within a few days, the affected area may begin to peel. This is your body's way of getting rid of the top layer of damaged skin. While your skin is peeling, keep using moisturizer.
Take an anti-itch drug. An oral antihistamine such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl, Chlor-Trimeton, others) might help relieve itching as the skin begins to peel and heal underneath.
Apply a soothing medicated cream. For mild to moderate sunburn, apply nonprescription 1% hydrocortisone cream to the affected area three times a day for three days. Try cooling the product in the refrigerator before applying.
Treat sunburned eyes. Apply a clean towel dampened with cool tap water. Don't wear contacts until your eye symptoms have gone away. Don't rub your eyes.
Protect yourself from further sun exposure. While your sunburn heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun-protection measures. You might try a product that has moisturizers and sunscreen.
Avoid applying '-caine' products, such as benzocaine. Such creams can irritate the skin or cause an allergic reaction. Benzocaine has been linked to a rare but potentially deadly condition that decreases the amount of oxygen that the blood can carry (methemoglobinemia).
Don't use benzocaine on children younger than age 2 without supervision from a health care provider. If you're an adult, never use more than the recommended dose and consider talking with your health care provider before using it.
Symptoms=Sunburn symptoms can include:
Inflamed skin, which looks pink or red on white skin and may be harder to see on brown or Black skin.
Skin that feels warm or hot to the touch.
Pain, tenderness and itching.
Swelling.
Small, fluid-filled blisters, which may break.
Headache, fever, nausea and fatigue, if the sunburn is severe.
Eyes that feel painful or gritty.
Any exposed part of the body — including the earlobes, scalp and lips — can burn. Even covered areas can burn if, for example, clothing has a loose weave that allows ultraviolet (UV) light through. The eyes, which are extremely sensitive to the sun's UV light, also can burn.
Sunburn symptoms often appear within a few hours after sun exposure.
Within a few days, the body may start to heal itself by peeling the damaged skin's top layer. A bad sunburn may take several days to heal. Any lingering changes in skin color usually go away with time.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for sunburn include:
Having white skin and red hair.
Having a history of sunburn.
Living or vacationing somewhere sunny, warm or at high altitude.
Working outdoors.
Swimming or spraying your skin with water or baby oil, as wet skin tends to burn more than does dry skin.
Mixing outdoor recreation and drinking alcohol.
Regularly exposing unprotected skin to UV light from sunlight or artificial sources, such as tanning beds.
Taking a drug that makes you more likely to burn (photosensitizing medication).
Prevention
Use these methods to prevent sunburn, even on cool, cloudy or hazy days. Sun exposure on cloudy days is decreased by about 20%. Be extra careful around water, snow, concrete and sand because they reflect the sun's rays. In addition, UV light is more intense at high altitudes.
Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The sun's rays are strongest during these hours, so try to schedule outdoor activities for other times. If you can't do that, limit the time you're in the sun. Seek shade when possible.
Avoid sun tanning and tanning beds. Getting a base tan doesn't decrease your risk of sunburn. If you use a self-tanning product to look tan, also apply a sunscreen before going outdoors.
Use sunscreen often and generously. Use water-resistant, broad-spectrum lip balm and sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Broad-spectrum products offer protection against ultraviolet A (UVA) and ultraviolet B (UVB) rays. SPF 30 blocks 97% of UVB rays. No sunscreen can block 100% of the sun's UVB rays.
About 30 minutes before going outdoors, generously apply your sunscreen to clean, dry skin. Use at least 2 tablespoons of sunscreen, or 1 ounce, to cover all surfaces of the exposed skin, except the eyelids. If you're using spray sunscreen, spray it into your hands and then rub it into the skin. This helps avoid inhaling the product. Don't use a spray product while smoking or near an open flame.
If you're using a product that contains physical blockers (titanium oxide, zinc oxide), apply it over any other products you're wearing — except insect repellent. Insect repellent goes on last. Physical blockers provide the most effective protection for sensitive skin.
Reapply sunscreen every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring. If you're wearing makeup and want to reapply your sunscreen without redoing your whole face, one option is to use an SPF powder over makeup.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires all sunscreen to retain its original strength for at least three years. Check sunscreen labels for directions on storing and expiration dates. Throw away sunscreen if it's expired or more than three years old.
Protect babies and toddlers. Protect babies and toddlers from sunburn with brimmed hats and lightweight clothing that covers the arms and legs. Keep them cool, hydrated and out of direct sunlight. When that's not possible, the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests applying sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15 to the face and back of the hands. The American Academy of Dermatology and the FDA don't suggest sunscreen for children under 6 months.
If sun-protective clothing and shade aren't available, sunscreens containing zinc oxide or titanium dioxide are the next best choice.
Cover up. When outside, other items such as umbrellas or wide-brimmed hats can offer protection in addition to sunscreen. Dark clothing with a tight weave offers more protection. Consider using outdoor gear specially designed to provide sun protection. Check the label for its ultraviolet protection factor (UPF), which tells how well a fabric blocks sunlight. The higher the UPF number, the better.
Wear sunglasses when outdoors. Choose sunglasses with UVA and UVB protection. Check the UV rating on the label when buying new glasses. Darker lenses don't always mean better UV protection. It also helps to wear sunglasses that fit close to your face or have wraparound frames.
Be aware of sun-sensitizing medications and cosmetics. Some common prescription and nonprescription drugs can make skin more sensitive to sunlight. Examples include antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and cholesterol-lowering drugs. Talk with your pharmacist or health care provider about the side effects of drugs you take. Cosmetics that contain alpha-hydroxy acids also increase sun sensitivity.
Mayo Clinic Minute: Shining the light on SPF in sunscreen
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Shining the light on SPF in sunscreen
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Supraventricular tachycardia
Home Remedies
If you have supraventricular tachycardia, a heart-healthy lifestyle is an important part of your treatment plan.
Try these tips to keep the heart healthy:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Eat healthy foods. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats.
Get regular exercise. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk to your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Ask your healthcare team what weight is best for you.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Practicing mindfulness and joining a support group are some ways to reduce and control stress. If you have anxiety or depression, talk to your care team about strategies to help.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Symptoms=The main symptom of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a very fast heartbeat that may last for a few minutes to a few days. The heart beats 100 or more times a minute. Usually during SVT, the heart beats 150 to 220 times a minute. The fast heartbeat may come and go suddenly.
Symptoms of supraventricular tachycardia may include:
Pounding or fluttering feelings in the chest, called palpitations.
A pounding sensation in the neck.
Chest pain.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Lightheadedness or dizziness.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
Weakness or extreme tiredness.
Some people with SVT do not notice symptoms.
In infants and very young children, symptoms of SVT may be vague. The symptoms can include sweating, poor feeding, a change in skin color and a rapid pulse. If your infant or young child has any of these symptoms, talk with a healthcare professional.
Risk Factors
Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is the most common type of arrhythmia in infants and children. It also tends to occur more often in women, particularly during pregnancy.
Health conditions or treatments that may increase the risk of supraventricular tachycardia include:
Coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and other heart diseases.
Heart failure.
A heart problem present at birth, also called a congenital heart defect.
Previous heart surgery.
A sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea.
Thyroid disease.
Uncontrolled diabetes.
Some medicines, including those used to treat asthma, allergies and colds.
Other things that may increase the risk of SVT include:
Emotional stress.
Too much caffeine.
Excessive alcohol use, which is defined as 14 or more drinks a week for men and seven or more drinks a week for women.
Smoking and nicotine use.
Stimulant drugs, including cocaine and methamphetamine.
Prevention
The same lifestyle changes used to manage supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) also may help prevent it. Try these tips.
Follow a heart-healthy lifestyle. Eat a nutritious diet, don't smoke, get regular exercise and manage stress.
Don't use a lot of caffeine. Avoid large amounts of caffeine. For most people with supraventricular tachycardia, moderate amounts of caffeine do not trigger episodes of SVT.
Keep a notebook or diary of when symptoms happen. Include the symptoms, your heart rate and what you were doing at the time of the fast heartbeat. This information can help you learn the things that trigger the very fast heartbeat.
Use medicines carefully. Some medicines, including those bought without a prescription, may contain stimulants that can trigger SVT.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Swimmer's itch
Home Remedies
These tips might help reduce the itch:
Apply a corticosteroid cream or an anti-itch lotion, such as those that contain calamine.
Take an oral nonprescription antihistamine (Benadryl) or one with loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others). The latter type causes less sleepiness than does Benadryl.
Avoiding scratching the rash.
Cover affected areas with a clean, damp washcloth.
Soak in a bath sprinkled with Epsom salts, baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno, others).
Make a paste of baking soda and water, and then apply it to the affected skin.
Symptoms=Swimmer's itch symptoms include an itchy rash that looks like pimples or blisters. Symptoms may begin within minutes or as long as two days after swimming or wading in contaminated water.
Usually the rash affects skin that's not covered by swimsuits, wetsuits or waders. Your sensitivity to swimmer's itch can increase each time you're exposed to the parasites that cause it.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of swimmer's itch include:
Spending time in water that's infested with certain parasites.
Forgetting to dry off with a towel after getting out of the water.
Being sensitive to the parasites that cause swimmer's itch.
Prevention
Follow these tips to avoid swimmer's itch:
Choose swimming spots carefully. Avoid being in water near the shore where swimmer's itch is a known problem or where signs have been posted warning of the risk. Also avoid being in marshy areas where snails are often found.
Rinse after swimming. Rinse exposed skin with clean water right after leaving the water. Then dry the skin with a towel.
Skip the bread crumbs. Don't feed birds on piers or near swimming areas.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Syringomyelia
Home Remedies
The following steps might help reduce the effects of syringomyelia.
Avoid activities that can make symptoms worse
Avoid activities that involve heavy lifting, straining or putting force on the spine.
Consider physical therapy and occupational therapy
A syringomyelia sometimes causes neurological conditions that decrease the ability to move. For instance, it may cause muscle weakness, pain, fatigue or stiffness. Physical and occupational therapy can help to improve muscle function. A physical therapist can create an exercise program that may help reduce these symptoms. An occupational therapist can teach you how to function better in your daily tasks.
Talk to your healthcare team about physical and occupational therapists in your area who have expertise in neurological conditions.
Manage chronic pain
If you have chronic pain from syringomyelia, talk to your healthcare team about treatment options. Many medical centers have doctors who specialize in pain management.
Symptoms=Syringomyelia symptoms usually develop slowly over time. If syringomyelia is caused by brain tissue pushing into the spinal canal, it is called a Chiari malformation. Symptoms generally begin between ages 25 and 40.
In some cases, coughing or straining can trigger symptoms of syringomyelia, although neither causes syringomyelia.
Syringomyelia might affect the back, shoulders, arms or legs. Symptoms can include:
Muscle weakness and muscle wasting.
Loss of reflexes.
Loss of sensitivity to pain and temperature.
Headaches.
Stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms and legs.
Pain in the neck, arms and back.
Scoliosis. This is when the spine curves sideways.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2014/03/21/13/44/mcdc7_syringoyelia_cyst.jpg
Condition
Systemic mastocytosis
Home Remedies
Systemic mastocytosis can be a complex disease. Understanding your condition is critical to ongoing care and prevention of complications. Ask family or friends if they can help you monitor and care for your condition. Here are some self-care tips:
Identify and avoid your triggers.
Treat allergic reactions. If your doctor recommends epinephrine, always carry a dose with you.
Follow your doctor's recommended care and ongoing monitoring.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace or carry a medical card identifying that you have systemic mastocytosis. Ask your doctor to give you information for health care professionals that you can carry with you in case you need emergency care.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of systemic mastocytosis depend on the part of the body affected by excessive mast cells. Too many mast cells can build up in the skin, liver, spleen, bone marrow or intestines. Less commonly, other organs such as the brain, heart or lungs also may be affected.
Signs and symptoms of systemic mastocytosis may include:
Flushing, itching or hives
Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting
Anemia or bleeding disorders
Bone and muscle pain
Enlarged liver, spleen or lymph nodes
Depression, mood changes or problems concentrating
The mast cells are triggered to produce substances that cause inflammation and symptoms. People have different triggers, but the most common ones include:
Alcohol
Skin irritation
Spicy foods
Exercise
Insect stings
Certain medications
When to see a doctor
Talk to your doctor if you have problems with flushing or hives, or if you have concerns about the signs or symptoms listed above.
Causes
Most cases of systemic mastocytosis are caused by a random change (mutation) in the KIT gene. Typically this flaw in the KIT gene is not inherited. Too many mast cells are produced and build up in tissues and body organs, releasing substances such as histamine, leukotrienes and cytokines that cause inflammation and symptoms.
Complications
Complications of systemic mastocytosis can include:
Anaphylactic reaction. This severe allergic reaction includes signs and symptoms such as rapid heartbeat, fainting, loss of consciousness and shock. If you have a severe allergic reaction, you may need an injection of epinephrine.
Blood disorders. These can include anemia and poor blood clotting.
Peptic ulcer disease. Chronic stomach irritation can lead to ulcers and bleeding in your digestive tract.
Reduced bone density. Because systemic mastocytosis can affect your bones and bone marrow, you may be at risk of bone problems, such as osteoporosis.
Organ failure. A buildup of mast cells in body organs can cause inflammation and damage to the organ.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tachycardia
Home Remedies
If you have tachycardia or any type of heart disease, it's important to take steps to keep your heart healthy. Steps include lifestyle changes such as eating a heart-healthy diet, getting regular exercise, and not smoking or using tobacco. Your care team also may suggest that you limit or avoid caffeine.
Symptoms=Some people with tachycardia have no symptoms. The fast heartbeat may be discovered when a physical exam or heart tests are done for another reason.
In general, tachycardia may cause these symptoms:
Racing, pounding heartbeat or flopping in the chest, called palpitations.
Chest pain.
Fainting.
Lightheadedness.
Rapid pulse.
Shortness of breath.
Risk Factors
In general, things that may raise the risk of irregular heart rhythms that commonly cause tachycardia include:
Getting older.
Having a family history of some heart rhythm disorders.
High blood pressure.
Lifestyle changes or treatment of heart conditions may lower the risk of tachycardia.
Prevention
The best way to prevent tachycardia is to keep the heart healthy. Have regular health checkups. If you have heart disease, follow your treatment plan. Take all medicines as directed.
Try these tips to prevent heart disease and keep the heart healthy:
Don't smoke.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Talk to your healthcare team before using any medicines. Some cold and cough medicines have stimulants that may start a rapid heartbeat. Illegal drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine are other stimulants that can cause changes in the heart's rhythm.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Teen depression
Home Remedies
You are your teenager's best advocate to help him or her succeed. In addition to professional treatment, here are some steps you and your teen can take that may help:
Stick to the treatment plan. Make sure your teen attends appointments, even if he or she doesn't feel like going. Even if your teen is feeling well, make sure he or she continues to take medications as prescribed. If your teen stops taking medications, depression symptoms may come back. And quitting suddenly may cause withdrawal-like symptoms.
Learn about depression. Education can empower your teen and motivate him or her to stick to a treatment plan. It can also benefit you and other loved ones to learn about depression and understand that it's a treatable condition.
Encourage communication with your teen. Talk to your teen about the changes you're observing and emphasize your unconditional support. Create an environment where your teen can share concerns while you listen.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your teen's doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger depression symptoms. Make a plan so that you and your teen know what to do if symptoms get worse. Ask family members or friends to help watch for warning signs.
Help your teen adopt healthy habits. Keep healthy foods in your home, keep unhealthy foods out, and set regular mealtimes. Encourage routine exercise, noting that even light physical activity can help reduce depression symptoms. Set a time for lights out at bedtime with no use of electronic devices in bed, which can help promote quality and quantity of sleep. If your teen is having problems with sleep, ask the doctor for advice.
Help your teen avoid alcohol and other drugs. Your teen may feel as if alcohol, marijuana or other drugs lessen depression symptoms, but in the long run they worsen symptoms and make depression harder to treat. Talk with the doctor or therapist if your teen needs help to deal with alcohol or drug use.
Eliminate or limit access to items your teen could use for self-harm. This can include removing or securing guns, and removing sharp items, alcohol or risky medications in your home if you live with a teen who has depression.
Symptoms=Teen depression signs and symptoms include a change from the teenager's previous attitude and behavior that can cause significant distress and problems at school or home, in social activities, or in other areas of life.
Depression symptoms can vary in severity, but changes in your teen's emotions and behavior may include the examples below.
Emotional changes
Be alert for emotional changes, such as:
Feelings of sadness, which can include crying spells for no apparent reason
Frustration or feelings of anger, even over small matters
Feeling hopeless or empty
Irritable or annoyed mood
Loss of interest or pleasure in usual activities
Loss of interest in, or conflict with, family and friends
Low self-esteem
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
Fixation on past failures or exaggerated self-blame or self-criticism
Extreme sensitivity to rejection or failure, and the need for excessive reassurance
Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions and remembering things
Ongoing sense that life and the future are grim and bleak
Frequent thoughts of death, dying or suicide
Behavioral changes
Watch for changes in behavior, such as:
Tiredness and loss of energy
Insomnia or sleeping too much
Changes in appetite — decreased appetite and weight loss, or increased cravings for food and weight gain
Use of alcohol or drugs
Agitation or restlessness — for example, pacing, hand-wringing or an inability to sit still
Slowed thinking, speaking or body movements
Frequent complaints of unexplained body aches and headaches, which may include frequent visits to the school nurse
Social isolation
Poor school performance or frequent absences from school
Less attention to personal hygiene or appearance
Angry outbursts, disruptive or risky behavior, or other acting-out behaviors
Self-harm — for example, cutting or burning
Making a suicide plan or a suicide attempt
What's normal and what's not
It can be difficult to tell the difference between ups and downs that are just part of being a teenager and teen depression. Talk with your teen. Try to determine whether he or she seems capable of managing challenging feelings, or if life seems overwhelming.
Risk Factors
Many factors increase the risk of developing or triggering teen depression, including:
Having issues that negatively impact self-esteem, such as obesity, peer problems, long-term bullying or academic problems
Having been the victim or witness of violence, such as physical or sexual abuse
Having other mental health conditions, such as bipolar disorder, an anxiety disorder, a personality disorder, anorexia or bulimia
Having a learning disability or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Having ongoing pain or a chronic physical illness such as cancer, diabetes or asthma
Having certain personality traits, such as low self-esteem or being overly dependent, self-critical or pessimistic
Abusing alcohol, nicotine or other drugs
Being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender in an unsupportive environment
Family history and issues with family or others may also increase your teenager's risk of depression, such as:
Having a parent, grandparent or other blood relative with depression, bipolar disorder or alcohol use problems
Having a family member who died by suicide
Having a family with major communication and relationship problems
Having experienced recent stressful life events, such as parental divorce, parental military service or the death of a loved one
Prevention
There's no sure way to prevent depression. However, these strategies may help. Encourage your teenager to:
Take steps to control stress, increase resilience and boost self-esteem to help handle issues when they arise
Practice self-care, for example by creating a healthy sleep routine and using electronics responsibly and in moderation
Reach out for friendship and social support, especially in times of crisis
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent depression from worsening
Maintain ongoing treatment, if recommended, even after symptoms let up, to help prevent a relapse of depression symptoms
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Temporal lobe seizure
Home Remedies
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your health care provider. If you feel your medicine needs to be changed, discuss it with your provider.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This helps emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Ask your health care provider about driving restrictions. Someone with a seizure disorder has to be seizure-free for a certain length of time before being able to drive. The amount of time varies by state.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury. But injury is possible if you have recurrent seizures. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off the chair. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers.
To help someone during a seizure:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight neckwear.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects, if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical personnel arrive.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Stay calm.
Symptoms=An unusual sensation known as an aura may happen before a temporal lobe seizure. An aura acts as a warning. Not everyone who has temporal lobe seizures has auras. And not everyone who has auras remembers them.
The aura is the first part of a focal seizure before a loss of consciousness. Examples of auras include:
A sudden sense of fear or joy.
A feeling that what's happening has happened before, known as deja vu.
A sudden or strange odor or taste.
A rising sensation in the belly similar to being on a roller coaster.
Sometimes temporal lobe seizures impair your ability to respond to others. This type of temporal lobe seizure usually lasts 30 seconds to 2 minutes.
Symptoms of a temporal lobe seizure include:
Not being aware of the people and things around you.
Staring.
Lip smacking.
Repeated swallowing or chewing.
Finger movements, such as picking motions.
After a temporal lobe seizure, you may have:
A period of confusion and trouble speaking.
Inability to recall what occurred during the seizure.
Not being aware of having had a seizure.
Extreme sleepiness.
In extreme cases, what starts as a temporal lobe seizure evolves into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. This type of seizure causes shaking, known as convulsions, and loss of consciousness. It also is called a grand mal seizure.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tendinitis
Home Remedies
To treat tendinitis at home, use rest, ice, compression and elevation. This treatment can help speed recovery and help prevent more problems.
Rest. Avoid doing things that increase the pain or swelling. Don't try to work or play through the pain. Healing requires rest, but not complete bed rest. You can do other activities and exercises that don't stress the injured tendon. Swimming and water exercise may be good options.
Ice. To decrease pain, muscle spasm and swelling, apply ice to the injured area for up to 20 minutes several times a day. Ice packs, ice massage or slush baths with ice and water all can help. For an ice massage, freeze a paper cup full of water so that you can hold the cup while applying the ice directly to the skin.
Compression. Because swelling can cause loss of motion in an injured joint, wrap the area tightly until the swelling stops. Use wraps or elastic bandages.
Elevation. If tendinitis affects your knee, raise the hurt leg above the level of your heart to reduce swelling.
Although rest is a key to treating tendinitis, not moving joints can cause them to become stiff. After a few days of resting the injured area, gently move it through its full range of motion to keep your joints flexible.
More Information
Tendinitis pain: Should I apply ice or heat?
Symptoms=Symptoms of tendinitis tend to occur where a tendon attaches to a bone. Symptoms often include:
Pain, often described as a dull ache, especially when moving the hurt limb or joint
Tenderness
Mild swelling
Risk Factors
Risk factors for developing tendinitis include age, having jobs that involve doing the same motion over and over, doing physical activities with poor form, and taking certain medicines.
Age
As people get older, their tendons become less flexible — which makes them easier to injure.
Work
Tendinitis is more common in people, such as gardeners and manual laborers, whose jobs involve:
Repeated motions
Awkward positions
A lot of overhead reaching
Vibration
Forced movements
Activities
When doing physical activities, the following can increase the risk of tendinitis:
Sudden increase in amount or difficulty of training
Poor equipment, such as old shoes
Hard surfaces, such as concrete or gym floors
Too little recovery time after an injury or too little time to get used to the activity again after time off
Poor posture or body movements
Medical condition and medications
Certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, can increase the risk of tendinitis. Medications that may increase risk include:
Antibiotics known as fluoroquinolines
Corticosteroids such as cortisone
Aromatase inhibitors, used to lower breast cancer risk
Prevention
To reduce the chance of developing tendinitis, follow these suggestions:
Ease up. Avoid activities that place too much stress on your tendons, especially for long periods. If you have pain during an exercise, stop and rest.
Mix it up. If one exercise or activity causes you pain, try something else. Cross-training can help you mix high-impact exercise, such as running, with lower impact exercise, such as biking or swimming.
Improve the way you move. If how you do an activity or exercise is flawed, you could be setting yourself up for problems with your tendons. Consider taking lessons or getting professional instructions when starting a new sport or using exercise equipment.
Stretch. After exercise, move your joints through full range of motion. The best time to stretch is after exercise, when your muscles are warmed up.
Move right in the workplace. Make sure your chair, keyboard and desktop are positioned correctly for your height, arm length and the tasks you do. This will help protect your joints and tendons from stress.
Prepare your muscles to play. Strengthening muscles used in your activity or sport can help them bear the load better.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tennis elbow
Home Remedies
The following self-care measures might relieve tennis elbow:
Rest. Do not do activities that aggravate elbow pain.
Pain relievers. Try pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Ice. Apply ice or a cold pack for 15 minutes 3 to 4 times a day.
Symptoms=The pain of tennis elbow can travel from the outside of the elbow into the forearm and wrist. Pain and weakness can make it hard to:
Shake hands or grip an object.
Turn a doorknob.
Hold a coffee cup.
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of tennis elbow include:
Age. Tennis elbow affects people of all ages. But it's most common in adults between the ages of 30 and 60.
Work. People who have jobs that involve repeating motions of the wrist and arm are more likely to develop tennis elbow. These include plumbers, painters, carpenters, butchers and cooks.
Certain sports. Playing racket sports increases the risk of tennis elbow. Not having good form or using poor equipment increases the risk even more. Playing more than two hours a day also increases the risk.
Other factors that can increase the risk include smoking, being obese and certain medicines.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/43/ds00469_im00373_mcdc7_tennis_elbow_jpg.jpg
Condition
Tension headache
Home Remedies
Rest, ice packs or a long, hot shower may be all you need to relieve a tension-type headache. If you experience chronic tension-type headaches, these strategies can help you reduce how many you have or how painful they are:
Manage your stress level. One way to help reduce stress is by planning ahead and organizing your day. Another way is to allow more time to relax.
Go hot or cold. Applying heat or ice — whichever you prefer — to sore muscles may ease a tension-type headache. For heat, use a heating pad set on low, a hot-water bottle, a warm compress or a hot towel. A hot bath or shower also may help. For cold, wrap ice, an ice pack or frozen vegetables in a cloth to protect your skin.
Perfect your posture. Good posture can help keep your muscles from tensing. When standing, hold your shoulders back and your head level. Pull in your abdomen and buttocks. When sitting, make sure your thighs are parallel to the ground and your head isn't slumped forward.
More Information
Headaches and stress
Relieving tension-type headaches
Symptoms=Symptoms of a tension-type headache include:
Dull, aching head pain.
Feeling of tightness or pressure across the forehead or on the sides and back of the head.
Tenderness in the scalp, neck and shoulder muscles.
Tension-type headaches are divided into two main categories — episodic and chronic.
Episodic tension-type headaches
Episodic tension-type headaches can last from 30 minutes to a week. Frequent episodic tension-type headaches occur less than 15 days a month for at least three months. This type of headache can become chronic.
Chronic tension-type headaches
This type of tension-type headache lasts hours and may be constant. Chronic tension-type headaches occur 15 or more days a month for at least three months.
Tension-type headaches versus migraines
Tension-type headaches can be hard to tell apart from migraines. And if you have frequent episodic tension-type headaches, you also can have migraines.
But unlike some forms of migraine, tension-type headaches usually aren't associated with visual disturbances such as seeing bright spots or flashes of light. People with tension-type headaches also don't usually experience nausea or vomiting with head pain. While physical activity tends to make migraine pain worse, it doesn't affect tension-type headache pain. Sometimes a tension-type headache occurs with sensitivity to light or sound, but this symptom isn't common.
Risk Factors
Most people experience a tension-type headache at some point in their lives. However, some research has found that women are more likely to have frequent episodic tension-type headaches and chronic tension-type headaches. Age also might play a factor. One study found that episodic tension-type headaches were more likely to affect people in their 40s.
Prevention
Regular exercise can help prevent tension-type headaches. Other techniques also can help, such as:
Biofeedback training. This training teaches you to control certain body responses that help reduce pain. A device monitors and gives you feedback on your muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure. You then learn how to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate and breathing.
Cognitive behavioral therapy. This type of talk therapy may help you learn to manage stress. Doing this may help you have fewer or less painful headaches.
Other relaxation techniques. Anything that helps you relax may help your headaches. This can include deep breathing, yoga, meditation and progressive muscle relaxation. You can learn these methods in classes or at home using books or apps.
Using medicines along with stress management may be more effective than any one treatment in reducing your tension-type headaches.
Also, living a healthy lifestyle may help prevent headaches:
Get enough, but not too much, sleep.
Don't smoke.
Stay physically active.
Eat regular, balanced meals.
Drink plenty of water.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and sugar.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tetanus
Home Remedies
Proper wound care is important for any cut or wound. Seek medical care if you have a puncture wound, a deep cut, an animal bite, a foreign object in your wound, or a wound contaminated with dirt, soil, feces, rust or saliva.
If you're unsure when you last had a tetanus vaccine, seek medical care. Contaminated or more-serious wounds require a vaccination booster if it's been five or more years since your last tetanus shot.
If you have a minor wound, these steps will help prevent infections:
Control bleeding. Apply direct pressure to stop bleeding.
Clean the wound. After the bleeding stops, rinse the wound with a saline solution, bottled water or clear running water.
Use antibiotics. Apply a thin layer of an antibiotic cream or ointment to discourage bacterial growth and infection.
Cover the wound. Bandages can keep the wound clean and keep harmful bacteria out. Keep the wound covered until a scab forms. If you cannot clean the wound thoroughly, do not cover it and instead seek medical care.
Change the dressing. Rinse the wound, apply antibiotic ointment, and replace the bandage at least once a day or whenever the dressing becomes wet or dirty.
Manage adverse reactions. If the antibiotic causes a rash, stop using it. If you're allergic to the adhesive used in most bandages, switch to adhesive-free dressings or sterile gauze and paper tape.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms=The average time from infection to appearance of signs and symptoms (incubation period) is 10 days. The incubation period can range from 3 to 21 days.
The most common type of tetanus is called generalized tetanus. Signs and symptoms begin gradually and then progressively worsen over two weeks. They usually start at the jaw and progress downward on the body.
Signs and symptoms of generalized tetanus include:
Painful muscle spasms and stiff, immovable muscles (muscle rigidity) in your jaw
Tension of muscles around your lips, sometimes producing a persistent grin
Painful spasms and rigidity in your neck muscles
Difficulty swallowing
Rigid abdominal muscles
Progression of tetanus results in repeated painful, seizure-like spasms that last for several minutes (generalized spasms). Usually, the neck and back arch, the legs become rigid, the arms are drawn up to the body, and the fists are clenched. Muscle rigidity in the neck and abdomen may cause breathing difficulties.
These severe spasms may be triggered by minor events that stimulate the senses — a loud sound, a physical touch, a draft or light.
As the disease progresses, other signs and symptoms may include:
High blood pressure
Low blood pressure
Rapid heart rate
Fever
Extreme sweating
Localized tetanus
This uncommon form of tetanus results in muscles spasms near the site of a wound. While it's usually a less severe form of disease, it can progress to generalized tetanus.
Cephalic tetanus
This rare form of tetanus results from a head wound. It results in weakened muscles in the face and spasms of the jaw muscles. It also can progress to generalized tetanus.
Risk Factors
The greatest risk factor for tetanus infection is not being vaccinated or not keeping up with the 10-year booster shots.
Other factors that increase the risk of tetanus infection are:
Cuts or wounds exposed to soil or manure
A foreign body in a wound, such as a nail or splinter
A history of immune-suppressing medical conditions
Infected skin lesions in people living with diabetes
An infected umbilical cord when a mother isn't fully vaccinated
Shared and unsanitary needles for illegal drug use
Prevention
You can prevent tetanus by being vaccinated.
Vaccination for children
The tetanus vaccine is given to children as part of the diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine (DTaP). Diphtheria is a serious bacterial infection of the nose and throat. Acellular pertussis, also called whooping cough, is a highly contagious respiratory infection.
Children who do not tolerate the pertussis vaccine may receive the alternative vaccine called DT.
The DTaP is a series of five shots typically given in the arm or thigh to children at ages:
2 months
4 months
6 months
15 to 18 months
4 to 6 years
Vaccination for children ages 7 to 18
A booster shot is recommended for children at age 11 or 12. This booster is called the Tdap vaccine. If your child didn't get a booster shot as this age, talk to your doctor about appropriate options.
Vaccination for adults age 19 and older
A booster shot is recommended for adults once every 10 years. This may be one of two vaccines, Tdap or Td. If you weren't vaccinated against tetanus as a child or are unsure about your vaccination status, see your doctor about getting the Tdap vaccine.
Vaccination during pregnancy
A booster is recommended during the third trimester of a pregnancy, regardless of the mother's vaccination schedule.
Other recommendations
Ask your doctor to review your vaccination status regularly.
Check whether you are current on your vaccination schedule if you are planning international travel.
More Information
Tetanus shots: Is it risky to receive 'extra' boosters?
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tetralogy of Fallot
Home Remedies
After treatment for tetralogy of Fallot, your healthcare team may suggest some steps to keep the heart healthy. These may include:
Sports and activity restrictions. Some people born with a serious heart problem such as tetralogy of Fallot may need to limit exercise or sports activities. But many others can participate in such activities. Ask your or your child's healthcare team which sports and types of activities are safe.
Antibiotics to prevent heart infection. Sometimes, severe heart problems can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve. Ask your child's healthcare professional if preventive antibiotics are necessary for your child. Good oral care and regular dental checkups also are important ways to help prevent infection.
Symptoms=Tetralogy of Fallot symptoms depend on how much blood flow is blocked from leaving the heart to go to the lungs. Symptoms may include:
Blue or gray skin color.
Shortness of breath and rapid breathing, especially during feeding or exercise.
Trouble gaining weight.
Getting tired easily during play or exercise.
Irritability.
Crying for long periods of time.
Fainting.
Tet spells
Some babies with tetralogy of Fallot suddenly develop deep blue or gray skin, nails, and lips. This usually happens when the baby cries, eats or is upset. These episodes are called tet spells.
Tet spells are caused by a rapid drop in the amount of oxygen in the blood. They are most common in young infants, around 2 to 4 months old. Tet spells may be less noticeable in toddlers and older children. That's because they typically squat when they're short of breath. Squatting sends more blood to the lungs.
Risk Factors
The exact cause of tetralogy of Fallot is unknown. Some things may increase the risk of a baby being born with tetralogy of Fallot. Risk factors include:
Family history.
Having a virus during pregnancy. This includes rubella, also known as German measles.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy.
Eating poorly during pregnancy.
Smoking during pregnancy.
Mother's age older than 35.
Down syndrome or DiGeorge syndrome in the baby.
Prevention
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these conditions. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
There are some steps you can take to help reduce your child's overall risk of birth defects, such as:
Get proper prenatal care. Regular checkups with a healthcare team during pregnancy can help keep mom and baby healthy.
Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to reduce birth defects in the brain and spinal cord. It may help reduce the risk of heart defects as well.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get a rubella (German measles) vaccine. A rubella infection during pregnancy may affect a baby's heart development. Get vaccinated before trying to get pregnant.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects.
Manage chronic health conditions. If you have other health conditions, including phenylketonuria, talk to your healthcare team about the best way to treat and manage them.
Avoid harmful substances. During pregnancy, have someone else do any painting and cleaning with strong-smelling products.
Check with your healthcare team before taking any medications. Some medications can cause birth defects. Tell your healthcare team about all the medications you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Thoracic aortic aneurysm
Home Remedies
If you have a thoracic aortic aneurysm, your health care provider may tell you not to do heavy lifting and some vigorous physical activities. Such activities can increase blood pressure, putting additional pressure on your aneurysm.
If you want to participate in a particular activity, your health care provider may recommend an exercise stress test to see how exercise affects your blood pressure. Moderate physical activity is generally healthy for you.
Stress also can raise blood pressure, so find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise and practicing mindfulness are some ways to reduce stress.
Symptoms=Thoracic aortic aneurysms often grow slowly. There are usually no symptoms, making them difficult to detect. Many start small and stay small. Others grow bigger over time. How quickly a thoracic aortic aneurysm may grow is difficult to predict.
As a thoracic aortic aneurysm grows, symptoms may include:
Back pain.
Cough.
Weak, scratchy voice.
Shortness of breath.
Tenderness or pain in the chest.
Symptoms that a thoracic aortic aneurysm has ruptured or dissected include:
Sharp, sudden pain in the upper back that spreads downward.
Pain in the chest, jaw, neck or arms.
Difficulty breathing.
Low blood pressure.
Loss of consciousness.
Shortness of breath.
Trouble swallowing.
Some aneurysms may never rupture or lead to dissection.
Risk Factors
Thoracic aortic aneurysm risk factors include:
Age. Growing older increases the risk of aortic aneurysms. Thoracic aortic aneurysms occur most often in people age 65 and older.
Tobacco use. Smoking and using tobacco greatly increases the risk of an aortic aneurysm.
High blood pressure. Increased blood pressure damages the blood vessels in the body, raising the risk of an aneurysm.
Buildup of plaques in the arteries. The buildup of fat and other substances in the blood can damage the lining of a blood vessel, increasing the risk of an aneurysm. This is a more common risk in older people.
Family history. Having a parent, brother, sister or child with an aortic aneurysm increases the risk of an aortic aneurysm and rupture. You may develop aneurysms at a younger age.
Genetic conditions. If you have Marfan syndrome or a related condition, such as Loeys-Dietz syndrome or vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, you have a significantly higher risk of a thoracic aortic aneurysm. The risk also is increased for an aortic or other blood vessel dissection or rupture.
Bicuspid aortic valve. Having an aortic valve with two cusps instead of three increases the risk of aortic aneurysm.
Prevention
Keeping the blood vessels as healthy as possible is important in preventing an aneurysm. A health care provider may recommend these heart-healthy strategies:
Don't smoke or use tobacco products.
Keep blood pressure and cholesterol levels under control.
Get regular exercise.
Reduce cholesterol and fat in the diet.
There are no medicines to prevent an aortic aneurysm. However, medicines may be used to treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol and other conditions linked to aneurysm. Proper management of such conditions may lower the risk of thoracic aortic aneurysm complications.
Screening and genetic testing
Conditions that cause a thoracic aortic aneurysm may run in families. A health care provider may recommend screening if a first-degree relative — such as a parent, brother, sister, son or daughter — has a genetic disease such as Marfan syndrome or another condition linked to thoracic aortic aneurysms.
Screening means you have regular imaging tests, usually an echocardiogram, to check for an aneurysm. If an ultrasound of the heart shows an enlarged aorta or an aneurysm, another imaging test is usually done within 6 to 12 months to make sure it hasn't grown.
Genetic testing also may be recommended if you have a family history of aortic aneurysms, particularly if you're considering pregnancy.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/35/ds00017_im04457_mcdc7_thoracicaneurysmthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Thoracic outlet syndrome
Home Remedies
If you're diagnosed with thoracic outlet syndrome, a physical therapist may instruct you to do exercises at home. The exercises can strengthen and support the muscles surrounding your thoracic outlet.
In general, to avoid unnecessary stress on your shoulders and muscles surrounding the thoracic outlet:
Maintain good posture.
Take frequent breaks at work to move and stretch.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Create a work area that allows you to keep good posture and doesn't make symptoms worse.
Gently massage your shoulders and thoracic outlet.
Apply a heating pad to the area.
Practice relaxation exercises such as deep breathing, meditation and stretching.
Symptoms=There are three types of thoracic outlet syndrome:
Neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome. This is the most common type of thoracic outlet syndrome. In this type, a group of nerves called the brachial plexus is compressed. The nerves of the brachial plexus come from the spinal cord. The nerves control muscle movements and feeling in the shoulder, arm and hand.
Venous thoracic outlet syndrome. This type of thoracic outlet syndrome occurs when one or more of the veins under the collarbone are compressed and damaged. This can result in blood clots.
Arterial thoracic outlet syndrome. This is the least common type of TOS. It occurs when one of the arteries under the collarbone is compressed. The compression may cause injury to the artery resulting in a bulge, known as an aneurysm, or blood clot formation.
Thoracic outlet syndrome symptoms can vary depending on the type. When nerves are compressed, symptoms of neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome include:
Numbness or tingling in the arm or fingers.
Pain or aches in the neck, shoulder, arm or hand.
Arm fatigue with activity.
A weakening grip.
Symptoms of venous thoracic outlet syndrome can include:
A change in the color of the hand or one or more fingers.
Hand or arm pain and swelling.
Symptoms of arterial thoracic outlet syndrome can include:
A pulsating lump near the collarbone.
Cold fingers, hands or arms.
Hand and arm pain.
A change in color in one or more of the fingers or the entire hand.
Weak or no pulse in the affected arm.
Risk Factors
There are several factors that seem to increase the risk of thoracic outlet syndrome, including:
Sex. Women are more than three times more likely to be diagnosed with thoracic outlet syndrome than are men.
Age. Thoracic outlet syndrome may occur at any age but is most commonly diagnosed in adults between the ages of 20 and 50.
Prevention
If you're at risk of thoracic outlet compression, avoid repetitive movements and lifting heavy objects. If you're overweight, losing weight may help you prevent or relieve symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome.
Even if you don't have symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome, avoid carrying heavy bags over your shoulder. This can increase pressure on the thoracic outlet. Stretch daily, and do exercises that keep your shoulder muscles strong and flexible.
Daily stretches focusing on the chest, neck and shoulders can help improve shoulder muscle strength and prevent thoracic outlet syndrome.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Throat cancer
Home Remedies
Quit smoking
Throat cancers are closely linked to smoking. Not everyone with throat cancer smokes. But if you do smoke, now is the time to stop because:
Smoking makes treatment less effective
Smoking makes it harder for your body to heal after surgery
Smoking increases your risk of getting another cancer in the future
Stopping smoking can be very difficult. And it's that much harder when you're trying to cope with a stressful situation, such as a cancer diagnosis. Your doctor can discuss all of your options, including medications, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Quit drinking alcohol
Alcohol, particularly when combined with smoking or chewing tobacco, greatly increases the risk of throat cancer. If you drink alcohol, stop now. This may help reduce your risk of a second cancer. Stopping drinking may also help you better tolerate your throat cancer treatments.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of throat cancer may include:
A cough
Changes in your voice, such as hoarseness or not speaking clearly
Difficulty swallowing
Ear pain
A lump or sore that doesn't heal
A sore throat
Weight loss
Risk Factors
HPV and throat cancer
Enlarge image
Factors that can increase your risk of throat cancer include:
Tobacco use, including smoking and chewing tobacco
Excessive alcohol use
Viral infections, including human papillomavirus (HPV) and Epstein-Barr virus
A diet lacking in fruits and vegetables
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Exposure to toxic substances at work
Prevention
There's no proven way to prevent throat cancer from occurring. But in order to reduce your risk of throat cancer, you can:
Stop smoking or don't start smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Stopping smoking can be very difficult, so get some help. Your doctor can discuss the benefits and risks of the many stop-smoking strategies, such as medication, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Choose a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. The vitamins and antioxidants in fruits and vegetables may reduce your risk of throat cancer. Eat a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Protect yourself from HPV. Some throat cancers are thought to be caused by the sexually transmitted infection human papillomavirus (HPV). You can reduce your risk of HPV by limiting your number of sexual partners and using a condom every time you have sex. Ask your doctor about the HPV vaccine, which may reduce the risk of throat cancer and other HPV-related cancers.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
There's no proven way to prevent throat cancer from occurring. But in order to reduce your risk of throat cancer, you can:
Stop smoking or don't start smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Stopping smoking can be very difficult, so get some help. Your doctor can discuss the benefits and risks of the many stop-smoking strategies, such as medication, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Choose a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. The vitamins and antioxidants in fruits and vegetables may reduce your risk of throat cancer. Eat a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Protect yourself from HPV. Some throat cancers are thought to be caused by the sexually transmitted infection human papillomavirus (HPV). You can reduce your risk of HPV by limiting your number of sexual partners and using a condom every time you have sex. Ask your doctor about the HPV vaccine, which may reduce the risk of throat cancer and other HPV-related cancers.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Thrombocytopenia
Home Remedies
If you have thrombocytopenia, try to:
Avoid activities that could cause injury. Ask your doctor which activities are safe for you. Contact sports, such as boxing, martial arts and football, carry a high risk of injury.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. Alcohol slows the production of platelets in your body. Ask your doctor whether it's OK for you to drink alcohol.
Use caution with over-the-counter medications. Over-the-counter pain medications, such as aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) can prevent platelets from working properly.
Symptoms=Petechiae
Enlarge image
Thrombocytopenia signs and symptoms may include:
Easy or excessive bruising (purpura)
Superficial bleeding into the skin that appears as a rash of pinpoint-sized reddish-purple spots (petechiae), usually on the lower legs
Prolonged bleeding from cuts
Bleeding from your gums or nose
Blood in urine or stools
Unusually heavy menstrual flows
Fatigue
Enlarged spleen
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Thumb arthritis
Home Remedies
To ease pain and improve joint mobility, try to:
Modify hand tools. Consider purchasing adaptive equipment — such as jar openers, key turners and large zipper pulls — designed for people with limited hand strength. Replace traditional door handles, which you must grasp with your thumb, with levers.
Apply cold. Icing the joint for five to 15 minutes several times a day can help relieve swelling and pain.
Apply heat. For some, heat may be more effective than cold in relieving pain.
Toothbrushes with and without foam handles.
Symptoms=Pain is the first and most common symptom of thumb arthritis. Pain can occur at the base of your thumb when you grip, grasp or pinch an object, or use your thumb to apply force.
Other signs and symptoms might include:
Swelling, stiffness and tenderness at the base of your thumb
Decreased strength when pinching or grasping objects
Decreased range of motion
Enlarged or bony appearance of the joint at the base of your thumb
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase your risk of thumb arthritis include:
Female sex.
Age above 40 years.
Obesity.
Certain hereditary conditions, such as joint ligament laxity and malformed joints.
Injuries to your thumb joint, such as fractures and sprains.
Diseases that change the normal structure and function of cartilage, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Although osteoarthritis is the most common cause of thumb arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis can also affect the CMC joint, usually to a lesser extent than other joints of the hand.
Activities and jobs that put high stress on the thumb joint.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tinnitus
Home Remedies
Often, tinnitus can't be treated. Some people, however, get used to it and notice it less than they did at first. For many people, certain adjustments make the symptoms less bothersome. These tips may help:
Use hearing protection. Over time, exposure to loud sounds can damage the nerves in the ears, causing hearing loss and tinnitus. To keep your tinnitus from getting worse, take steps to protect your hearing. If you use chain saws, are a musician, work in an industry that uses loud machinery or use firearms (especially pistols or shotguns), always wear over-the-ear hearing protection.
Turn down the volume. Listening to music at very high volume through headphones can contribute to hearing loss and tinnitus.
Use white noise. If tinnitus is especially noticeable in quiet settings, try using a white noise machine to mask the noise from tinnitus. If you don't have a white noise machine, a fan, soft music or low-volume radio static also may help.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and nicotine. These substances, especially when used in excess, can affect blood flow and contribute to tinnitus.
Symptoms=Tinnitus is most often described as a ringing in the ears, even though no external sound is present. However, tinnitus can also cause other types of phantom noises in your ears, including:
Buzzing
Roaring
Clicking
Hissing
Humming
Most people who have tinnitus have subjective tinnitus, or tinnitus that only you can hear. The noises of tinnitus may vary in pitch from a low roar to a high squeal, and you may hear it in one or both ears. In some cases, the sound can be so loud it interferes with your ability to concentrate or hear external sound. Tinnitus may be present all the time, or it may come and go.
In rare cases, tinnitus can occur as a rhythmic pulsing or whooshing sound, often in time with your heartbeat. This is called pulsatile tinnitus. If you have pulsatile tinnitus, your doctor may be able to hear your tinnitus when he or she does an examination (objective tinnitus).
Risk Factors
Anyone can experience tinnitus, but these factors may increase your risk:
Loud noise exposure. Loud noises, such as those from heavy equipment, chain saws and firearms, are common sources of noise-related hearing loss. Portable music devices, such as MP3 players, also can cause noise-related hearing loss if played loudly for long periods. People who work in noisy environments — such as factory and construction workers, musicians, and soldiers — are particularly at risk.
Age. As you age, the number of functioning nerve fibers in your ears declines, possibly causing hearing problems often associated with tinnitus.
Sex. Men are more likely to experience tinnitus.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Smokers have a higher risk of developing tinnitus. Drinking alcohol also increases the risk of tinnitus.
Certain health problems. Obesity, cardiovascular problems, high blood pressure, and a history of arthritis or head injury all increase your risk of tinnitus.
Prevention
In many cases, tinnitus is the result of something that can't be prevented. However, some precautions can help prevent certain kinds of tinnitus.
Use hearing protection. Over time, exposure to loud sounds can damage the nerves in the ears, causing hearing loss and tinnitus. Try to limit your exposure to loud sounds. And if you cannot avoid loud sounds, use ear protection to help protect your hearing. If you use chain saws, are a musician, work in an industry that uses loud machinery or use firearms (especially pistols or shotguns), always wear over-the-ear hearing protection.
Turn down the volume. Long-term exposure to amplified music with no ear protection or listening to music at very high volume through headphones can cause hearing loss and tinnitus.
Take care of your cardiovascular health. Regular exercise, eating right and taking other steps to keep your blood vessels healthy can help prevent tinnitus linked to obesity and blood vessel disorders.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and nicotine. These substances, especially when used in excess, can affect blood flow and contribute to tinnitus.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
TMJ disorders
Home Remedies
Becoming more aware of tension-related habits — clenching your jaw, grinding your teeth or chewing pencils — will help you reduce their frequency. The following tips may help you reduce symptoms of TMJ disorders:
Avoid overuse of jaw muscles. Eat soft foods. Cut food into small pieces. Steer clear of sticky or chewy food. Avoid chewing gum.
Stretching and massage. Your doctor, dentist or physical therapist may show you how to do exercises that stretch and strengthen your jaw muscles and how to massage the muscles yourself.
Heat or cold. Applying warm, moist heat or ice to the side of your face may help alleviate pain.
Symptoms=Signs and symptoms of TMJ disorders may include:
Pain or tenderness of your jaw
Pain in one or both of the temporomandibular joints
Aching pain in and around your ear
Difficulty chewing or pain while chewing
Aching facial pain
Locking of the joint, making it difficult to open or close your mouth
TMJ disorders can also cause a clicking sound or grating sensation when you open your mouth or chew. But if there's no pain or limitation of movement associated with your jaw clicking, you probably don't need treatment for a TMJ disorder.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of developing TMJ disorders include:
Various types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis
Jaw injury
Long-term (chronic) grinding or clenching of teeth
Certain connective tissue diseases that cause problems that may affect the temporomandibular joint



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure
Home Remedies
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to a healthcare professional. Tell the health professional if you feel your medicine should be changed.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This helps emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury. But injury is possible if you have recurrent seizures. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off the chair. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers there, too.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers so that they know what to do.
To help someone during a seizure:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight clothes from around the neck.
Remove eyeglasses.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical personnel arrive.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Check for a medical alert bracelet or ID.
Stay calm.
Symptoms=Tonic-clonic seizures have two stages:
Tonic phase. Loss of consciousness occurs. The muscles suddenly contract and cause the person to fall down. This phase tends to last about 10 to 20 seconds.
Clonic phase. The muscles go into rhythmic contractions. They alternately flex and relax. Convulsions usually last 1 to 2 minutes or less.
The following symptoms occur in some but not all people with tonic-clonic seizures:
A scream. Some people may cry out at the beginning of a seizure.
Loss of bowel and bladder control. This may happen during or following a seizure.
Not responding after convulsions. The person may not become conscious for several minutes after convulsions have ended.
Confusion. The person often is disoriented after a tonic-clonic seizure. This is referred to as postictal confusion.
Fatigue. Sleepiness is common after a tonic-clonic seizure.
Bad headache. Headaches may occur after a tonic-clonic seizure.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for tonic-clonic seizures include:
A family history of seizure disorders.
Any injury to the brain from trauma, a stroke, previous infection and other causes.
Sleep deprivation.
Medical problems that affect electrolyte balance.
Illicit drug use.
Heavy alcohol use.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Toothache
Home Remedies
Rinse with warm salt water.Clove oil applied to the affected area.Cold compress on the cheek for pain relief.Garlic paste for antimicrobial effects.
Symptoms=symptoms include throbbing pain, sensitivity to hot or cold temperatures, swelling around the tooth, and discomfort when biting or chewing. Toothaches can be caused by various factors, including tooth decay, gum disease, dental abscesses, or injury to the tooth. In some cases, the pain may radiate to the jaw or ear. If left untreated, a toothache can lead to more serious dental issues.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Traveler's diarrhea
Home Remedies
If you do get traveler's diarrhea, avoid caffeine, alcohol and dairy products, which may worsen symptoms or increase fluid loss. But keep drinking fluids.
Drink canned fruit juices, weak tea, clear soup, decaffeinated soda or sports drinks to replace lost fluids and minerals. Later, as your diarrhea improves, try a diet of easy-to-eat complex carbohydrates, such as salted crackers, bland cereals, bananas, applesauce, dry toast or bread, rice, potatoes, and plain noodles.
You may return to your normal diet as you feel you can tolerate it. Add dairy products, caffeinated beverages and high-fiber foods cautiously.
Symptoms=Traveler's diarrhea may begin suddenly during your trip or shortly after you return home. Most people improve within 1 to 2 days without treatment and recover completely within a week. However, you can have multiple episodes of traveler's diarrhea during one trip.
The most common symptoms of traveler's diarrhea are:
Suddenly passing three or more looser watery stools a day.
An urgent need to pass stool.
Stomach cramps.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fever.
Sometimes, people experience moderate to severe dehydration, ongoing vomiting, a high fever, bloody stools, or severe pain in the belly or rectum. If you or your child experiences any of these symptoms or if the diarrhea lasts longer than a few days, it's time to see a healthcare professional.
Risk Factors
Each year millions of international travelers experience traveler's diarrhea. High-risk destinations for traveler's diarrhea include areas of:
Central America.
South America.
Mexico.
Africa.
South Asia and Southeast Asia.
Traveling to Eastern Europe, South Africa, Central and East Asia, the Middle East, and a few Caribbean islands also poses some risk. However, your risk of traveler's diarrhea is generally low in Northern and Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States.
Your chances of getting traveler's diarrhea are mostly determined by your destination. But certain groups of people have a greater risk of developing the condition. These include:
Young adults. The condition is slightly more common in young adult tourists. Though the reasons why aren't clear, it's possible that young adults lack acquired immunity. They may also be more adventurous than older people in their travels and dietary choices, or they may be less careful about avoiding contaminated foods.
People with weakened immune systems. A weakened immune system due to an underlying illness or immune-suppressing medicines such as corticosteroids increases risk of infections.
People with diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, or severe kidney, liver or heart disease. These conditions can leave you more prone to infection or increase your risk of a more-severe infection.
People who take acid blockers or antacids. Acid in the stomach tends to destroy organisms, so a reduction in stomach acid may leave more opportunity for bacterial survival.
People who travel during certain seasons. The risk of traveler's diarrhea varies by season in certain parts of the world. For example, risk is highest in South Asia during the hot months just before the monsoons.
Prevention
Watch what you eat
The general rule of thumb when traveling to another country is this: Boil it, cook it, peel it or forget it. But it's still possible to get sick even if you follow these rules.
Other tips that may help decrease your risk of getting sick include:
Don't consume food from street vendors.
Don't consume unpasteurized milk and dairy products, including ice cream.
Don't eat raw or undercooked meat, fish and shellfish.
Don't eat moist food at room temperature, such as sauces and buffet offerings.
Eat foods that are well cooked and served hot.
Stick to fruits and vegetables that you can peel yourself, such as bananas, oranges and avocados. Stay away from salads and from fruits you can't peel, such as grapes and berries.
Be aware that alcohol in a drink won't keep you safe from contaminated water or ice.
Don't drink the water
When visiting high-risk areas, keep the following tips in mind:
Don't drink unsterilized water — from tap, well or stream. If you need to consume local water, boil it for three minutes. Let the water cool naturally and store it in a clean covered container.
Don't use locally made ice cubes or drink mixed fruit juices made with tap water.
Beware of sliced fruit that may have been washed in contaminated water.
Use bottled or boiled water to mix baby formula.
Order hot beverages, such as coffee or tea, and make sure they're steaming hot.
Feel free to drink canned or bottled drinks in their original containers — including water, carbonated beverages, beer or wine — as long as you break the seals on the containers yourself. Wipe off any can or bottle before drinking or pouring.
Use bottled water to brush your teeth.
Don't swim in water that may be contaminated.
Keep your mouth closed while showering.
If it's not possible to buy bottled water or boil your water, bring some means to purify water. Consider a water-filter pump with a microstrainer filter that can filter out small microorganisms.
You also can chemically disinfect water with iodine or chlorine. Iodine tends to be more effective, but is best reserved for short trips, as too much iodine can be harmful to your system. You can purchase water-disinfecting tablets containing chlorine, iodine tablets or crystals, or other disinfecting agents at camping stores and pharmacies. Be sure to follow the directions on the package.
Follow additional tips
Here are other ways to reduce your risk of traveler's diarrhea:
Make sure dishes and utensils are clean and dry before using them.
Wash your hands often and always before eating. If washing isn't possible, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol to clean your hands before eating.
Seek out food items that require little handling in preparation.
Keep children from putting things — including their dirty hands — in their mouths. If possible, keep infants from crawling on dirty floors.
Tie a colored ribbon around the bathroom faucet to remind you not to drink — or brush your teeth with — tap water.
Other preventive measures
Public health experts generally don't recommend taking antibiotics to prevent traveler's diarrhea, because doing so can contribute to the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
Antibiotics provide no protection against viruses and parasites, but they can give travelers a false sense of security about the risks of consuming local foods and beverages. They also can cause unpleasant side effects, such as skin rashes, skin reactions to the sun and vaginal yeast infections.
As a preventive measure, some doctors suggest taking bismuth subsalicylate, which has been shown to decrease the likelihood of diarrhea. However, don't take this medicine for longer than three weeks, and don't take it at all if you're pregnant or allergic to aspirin. Talk to your doctor before taking bismuth subsalicylate if you're taking certain medicines, such as anticoagulants.
Common harmless side effects of bismuth subsalicylate include a black-colored tongue and dark stools. In some cases, it can cause constipation, nausea and, rarely, ringing in your ears, called tinnitus.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Tricuspid valve regurgitation
Home Remedies
If you have tricuspid regurgitation or any type of heart disease, your healthcare team may suggest making lifestyle changes. Try these steps:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins. Avoid saturated fats and trans fats, sugar, and refined grains. Do not add salt to foods. If you have heart failure, your care team may tell you to limit fluids and salt.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. If you smoke or chew tobacco, quit. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. Quitting is the best way to reduce the risk. If you need help quitting, talk to a healthcare professional.
Get regular exercise. Exercise can help improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day. Talk to your healthcare team before starting a new exercise routine.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight is a risk factor for heart disease. Talk with your care team to set realistic goals for weight.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare team.
Control blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure increases the risk of serious health problems.
Get a cholesterol test. Ask your care team how often you need a cholesterol test.
Manage diabetes. If you have diabetes, tight blood sugar control can help keep your heart healthy.
If you had your tricuspid valve replaced, ask your care team if you need to take antibiotics before some types of dental work, such as gum surgery. Antibiotics are sometimes recommended for some people with heart valve replacements. The antibiotics prevent germs from getting into the lining of the heart, a condition called infective endocarditis.
Symptoms=Tricuspid valve regurgitation often doesn't cause symptoms until the condition is severe. It may be found when medical tests are done for another reason.
Symptoms of tricuspid valve regurgitation may include:
Extreme tiredness.
Shortness of breath with activity.
Feelings of a rapid or pounding heartbeat.
Pounding or pulsing feeling in the neck.
Swelling in the belly, legs or neck veins.
Risk Factors
A risk factor is something that makes you more likely to get a sickness or other health condition.
Things that can increase the risk of tricuspid valve regurgitation are:
An irregular heartbeat called atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Being born with a heart problem, called a congenital heart defect.
Damage to the heart muscle, including heart attack.
Heart failure.
High blood pressure in the lungs, also called pulmonary hypertension.
Infections of the heart and heart valves.
History of radiation therapy to the chest area.
Use of some weight-loss drugs and medicines to treat migraines and mental health disorders.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2015/01/21/09/05/mcdc7_tricuspid_valve_regurgitation-8col.jpg
Condition
Truncus arteriosus
Home Remedies
If you or your child had truncus arteriosus, your provider may recommend taking a few steps to protect the heart.
Exercise restrictions. Some people with heart problems need to limit exercise and sports activities, especially competitive sports. Ask your health care provider which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child. People with Eisenmenger syndrome should avoid strenuous physical activity.
Antibiotics. Sometimes, heart problems can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures and other surgical procedures to prevent infections. It's also important to have good oral hygiene and regular dental checkups.
Pregnancy. If you've had truncus arteriosus repair surgery and want to become pregnant, talk to your health care provider first about the possible risks and complications. It's best to be checked by providers with training in adult congenital heart disease and high-risk pregnancies. Together, you and your care team can discuss and plan for any special care needed during pregnancy.
Depending on the level of lung damage that occurred before truncus arteriosus surgery, pregnancy might or might not be recommended. Pregnancy is considered very high risk for those with Eisenmenger syndrome and is not recommended.
Symptoms=Symptoms of truncus arteriosus usually occur in the first few days of life. They include:
Blue or gray skin due to low oxygen levels.
Excessive sleepiness.
Poor feeding.
Poor growth.
Pounding heartbeat.
Fast breathing.
Shortness of breath.
Risk Factors
The exact cause of truncus arteriosus is unknown. But some things might increase the risk of a heart problem at birth. Risk factors include:
Viral illness during pregnancy. Some infections can hurt a developing baby. For example, having German measles during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. German measles also is called rubella.
Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy. Careful control of your blood sugar before and during pregnancy can reduce the risk of heart problems in your baby. If you have diabetes, work with your provider to be sure blood sugar is well controlled before getting pregnant.
Certain medicines taken during pregnancy. Some medicines can cause heart problems and other health conditions in a baby. Tell your provider about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Certain chromosomal disorders. An extra or irregular chromosome increases the risk of truncus arteriosus. Examples are DiGeorge syndrome, also called 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, and velocardiofacial syndrome.
Smoking during pregnancy. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of heart problems in your baby.
Alcohol use. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy increases the risk of heart problems and other health conditions in a baby.
Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of giving birth to a baby with a heart problem.
Prevention
Because the cause is unclear, it may not be possible to prevent truncus arteriosus. Getting good prenatal care is important. If you have a family history of heart problems present at birth, consider talking with a genetic counselor and a heart doctor, called a cardiologist, before getting pregnant.
If you decide to get pregnant, taking these steps can help keep your baby healthy:
Get recommended vaccinations. Some infections can be harmful to a developing baby. For example, having German measles — also called rubella —during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Talk to your provider about your medicines. Check with your health care provider before taking any medicines if you're pregnant or thinking about becoming pregnant. Many drugs aren't recommended for use during pregnancy because they can harm a developing baby.
Take a folic acid supplement. Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to reduce brain and spinal cord problems in babies. It may help reduce the risk of heart problems present at birth too.
Control diabetes. If you have diabetes, ask your health care provider how to best manage the disease during pregnancy.
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/10/03/ds00746_ds00998_im00120_hb7_truncus_thu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Type 1 diabetes
Home Remedies
Careful management of type 1 diabetes can lower your risk of serious — even life-threatening — complications. Consider these tips:
Make a commitment to manage your diabetes. Take your medications as recommended. Learn all you can about type 1 diabetes. Make healthy eating and physical activity part of your daily routine. Establish a relationship with a diabetes educator. Ask your health care team for help.
Identify yourself. Wear a tag or bracelet that says you are living with diabetes. Keep a glucagon kit nearby in case of a low blood sugar emergency. Make sure your friends and loved ones know how to use the kit.
Schedule a yearly physical exam and regular eye exams. Your regular diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace yearly physicals or routine eye exams. During the physical, your provider will look for any diabetes-related complications. Your provider will also look for other medical problems. Your eye care specialist will check for signs of eye complications, such as retina damage, cataracts and glaucoma.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken the immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your provider will likely recommend the pneumonia vaccine, too. They may also recommend getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't had it before and you're an adult between the ages of 19 and 59 years with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The CDC recommends vaccination as soon as possible after diagnosis with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. If you are age 60 or older and have diabetes and haven't received the vaccine, talk to your provider about whether it's right for you.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes. Moisturize your feet with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness or swelling. Consult your provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that doesn't heal.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can help control high blood pressure and cholesterol. Medication also may be needed.
If you smoke or use other forms of tobacco, ask your provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of diabetes complications. These include heart attack, stroke, nerve damage and kidney disease. Talk to your provider about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol can cause either high or low blood sugar. It depends on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so only in moderation and always with a meal. Check your blood sugar levels before going to sleep.
Take stress seriously. The hormones the body produces when you're under long-term stress may prevent insulin from working properly. This can stress and frustrate you even more. Take a step back and set some limits. Prioritize your tasks. Learn ways to relax. Get plenty of sleep.
Symptoms=Type 1 diabetes symptoms can appear suddenly and may include:
Feeling more thirsty than usual
Urinating a lot
Bed-wetting in children who have never wet the bed during the night
Feeling very hungry
Losing weight without trying
Feeling irritable or having other mood changes
Feeling tired and weak
Having blurry vision
Risk Factors
Some factors that can raise your risk for type 1 diabetes include:
Family history. Anyone with a parent or sibling with type 1 diabetes has a slightly higher risk of developing the condition.
Genetics. Having certain genes increases the risk of developing type 1 diabetes.
Geography. The number of people who have type 1 diabetes tends to be higher as you travel away from the equator.
Age. Type 1 diabetes can appear at any age, but it appears at two noticeable peaks. The first peak occurs in children between 4 and 7 years old. The second is in children between 10 and 14 years old.
Prevention
There's no known way to prevent type 1 diabetes. But researchers are working on preventing the disease or further damage of the islet cells in people who are newly diagnosed.
Ask your provider if you might be eligible for one of these clinical trials. It is important to carefully weigh the risks and benefits of any treatment available in a trial.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Type 1 diabetes in children
Home Remedies
Following a diabetes treatment plan requires 24-hour care and significant lifestyle changes. Careful management of type 1 diabetes helps reduce your child's risk of serious complications.
As your child gets older:
Encourage him or her to take an increasingly active role in diabetes management
Stress the importance of lifelong diabetes care
Teach your child how to test his or her blood sugar and inject insulin
Help your child make wise food choices
Encourage your child to remain physically active
Foster a relationship between your child and his or her diabetes treatment team
Make sure your child wears a medical identification tag
The habits you teach your child today will help him or her enjoy an active and healthy life with type 1 diabetes.
School and diabetes
You'll need to work with your child's day care provider or school nurse and teachers to make sure they know the signs and symptoms of high and low blood sugar levels. The school nurse might need to administer insulin or check your child's blood sugar levels.
Federal law protects children with diabetes, and schools must make reasonable accommodations to ensure that all children get a proper education.
Ask your health care provider
Contact your child's health care provider, certified diabetes care and education specialist, or registered dietitian between appointments if you have questions.
Symptoms=The signs and symptoms of type 1 diabetes in children usually develop quickly, and may include:
Increased thirst
Frequent urination, possibly bed-wetting in a toilet-trained child
Extreme hunger
Unintentional weight loss
Fatigue
Irritability or behavior changes
Fruity-smelling breath
Risk Factors
Type 1 diabetes most often occurs in children but can occur at any age. Risk factors for type 1 diabetes in children include:
Family history. Anyone with a parent or siblings with type 1 diabetes has a slightly increased risk of developing the condition.
Genetics. Certain genes indicate an increased risk of type 1 diabetes.
Race. In the United States, type 1 diabetes is more common among white children of non-Hispanic descent than among children of other races.
Certain viruses. Exposure to various viruses may trigger the autoimmune destruction of the islet cells.
Prevention
There's currently no sure way to prevent type 1 diabetes, but this is a very active area of research.
The antibodies associated with type 1 diabetes in children who have a high risk of the disorder can be detected months or even years before the first symptoms of type 1 diabetes appear. Researchers are working on:
Preventing or delaying the start of type 1 diabetes in people who have a high risk of the disease.
Preventing further destruction of the islet cells in people who are newly diagnosed.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Type 2 diabetes
Home Remedies
Careful management of type 2 diabetes can reduce the risk of serious — even life-threatening — complications. Consider these tips:
Commit to managing your diabetes. Learn all you can about type 2 diabetes. Make healthy eating and physical activity part of your daily routine.
Work with your team. Establish a relationship with a certified diabetes education specialist, and ask your diabetes treatment team for help when you need it.
Identify yourself. Wear a necklace or bracelet that says you are living with diabetes, especially if you take insulin or other blood sugar-lowering medicine.
Schedule a yearly physical exam and regular eye exams. Your diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace regular physicals or routine eye exams.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken your immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your health care provider also may recommend the pneumonia vaccine. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also recommends the hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't previously received this vaccine and you're 19 to 59 years old. Talk to your health care provider about other vaccinations you may need.
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush and floss your teeth regularly and schedule recommended dental exams. Contact your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water, dry them gently, especially between the toes, and moisturize them with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness and swelling. Contact your health care provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that isn't healing.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can go a long way toward controlling high blood pressure and cholesterol. Take medication as prescribed.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your health care provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of diabetes complications. Talk to your health care provider about ways to stop using tobacco.
Use alcohol sparingly. Depending on the type of drink, alcohol may lower or raise blood sugar levels. If you choose to drink alcohol, only do so with a meal. The recommendation is no more than one drink daily for women and no more than two drinks daily for men. Check your blood sugar frequently after drinking alcohol.
Make healthy sleep a priority. Many people with type 2 diabetes have sleep problems. And not getting enough sleep may make it harder to keep blood sugar levels in a healthy range. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your health care provider about treatment options.
More Information
Caffeine: Does it affect blood sugar?
Symptoms=Symptoms of type 2 diabetes often develop slowly. In fact, you can be living with type 2 diabetes for years and not know it. When symptoms are present, they may include:
Increased thirst.
Frequent urination.
Increased hunger.
Unintended weight loss.
Fatigue.
Blurred vision.
Slow-healing sores.
Frequent infections.
Numbness or tingling in the hands or feet.
Areas of darkened skin, usually in the armpits and neck.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase the risk of type 2 diabetes include:
Weight. Being overweight or obese is a main risk.
Fat distribution. Storing fat mainly in the abdomen — rather than the hips and thighs — indicates a greater risk. The risk of type 2 diabetes is higher in men with a waist circumference above 40 inches (101.6 centimeters) and in women with a waist measurement above 35 inches (88.9 centimeters).
Inactivity. The less active a person is, the greater the risk. Physical activity helps control weight, uses up glucose as energy and makes cells more sensitive to insulin.
Family history. An individual's risk of type 2 diabetes increases if a parent or sibling has type 2 diabetes.
Race and ethnicity. Although it's unclear why, people of certain races and ethnicities — including Black, Hispanic, Native American and Asian people, and Pacific Islanders — are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than white people are.
Blood lipid levels. An increased risk is associated with low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol — the "good" cholesterol — and high levels of triglycerides.
Age. The risk of type 2 diabetes increases with age, especially after age 35.
Prediabetes. Prediabetes is a condition in which the blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not high enough to be classified as diabetes. Left untreated, prediabetes often progresses to type 2 diabetes.
Pregnancy-related risks. The risk of developing type 2 diabetes is higher in people who had gestational diabetes when they were pregnant and in those who gave birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds (4 kilograms).
Polycystic ovary syndrome. Having polycystic ovary syndrome — a condition characterized by irregular menstrual periods, excess hair growth and obesity — increases the risk of diabetes.
Prevention
Healthy lifestyle choices can help prevent type 2 diabetes. If you've received a diagnosis of prediabetes, lifestyle changes may slow or stop the progression to diabetes.
A healthy lifestyle includes:
Eating healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Getting active. Aim for 150 or more minutes a week of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity, such as a brisk walk, bicycling, running or swimming.
Losing weight. If you are overweight, losing a modest amount of weight and keeping it off may delay the progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes. If you have prediabetes, losing 7% to 10% of your body weight may reduce the risk of diabetes.
Avoiding long stretches of inactivity. Sitting still for long periods of time can increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Try to get up every 30 minutes and move around for at least a few minutes.
For people with prediabetes, metformin (Fortamet, Glumetza, others), a diabetes medication, may be prescribed to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. This is usually prescribed for older adults who are obese and unable to lower blood sugar levels with lifestyle changes.
More Information
Diabetes prevention: 5 tips for taking control
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Type 2 diabetes in children
Home Remedies
Helping your child follow the diabetes treatment plan takes round-the-clock commitment. But careful management of type 2 diabetes can reduce your child's risk of serious complications.
As your child gets older:
Encourage your child to take an increasingly active role in diabetes management
Stress the importance of lifelong diabetes care
Teach your child how to test blood sugar levels and to take medication and inject insulin if needed
Help your child make healthy food choices
Encourage your child to remain physically active and limit electronic screen time
Foster a relationship between your child and the diabetes treatment team
Make sure your child wears a medical identification tag
School and diabetes
You'll need to work with your child's school nurse and teachers to make sure they know the symptoms of high and low blood sugar levels. The school nurse might need to administer insulin or check your child's blood sugar.
Federal law protects children with diabetes, and schools must make reasonable accommodations to ensure that all children get a proper education.
When to contact your diabetes care team
Contact your child's health care provider, certified diabetes care and education specialist, or registered dietitian between appointments if your child's blood sugar is consistently out of the target range your health care provider recommended. Also contact the care team if you're not sure what to do in a certain situation.
Symptoms=Type 2 diabetes in children may develop so gradually that there are no noticeable symptoms. Sometimes, the disorder is diagnosed during a routine check-up.
Some children might experience these signs and symptoms as a result of too much sugar in their bloodstreams:
Increased thirst
Frequent urination
Increased hunger
Fatigue
Blurry vision
Darkened areas of skin, most often around the neck or in the armpits and groin
Unintended weight loss, although this is less common in children with type 2 diabetes than in children with type 1 diabetes
Frequent infections
Risk Factors
Researchers don't fully understand why some children develop type 2 diabetes and others don't, even if they have similar risk factors. However, it's clear that certain factors increase the risk, including:
Weight. Being overweight is a strong risk factor for type 2 diabetes in children. The more fatty tissue children have — especially inside and between the muscle and skin around the abdomen — the more resistant their bodies' cells become to insulin.
Inactivity. The less active children are, the greater their risk of type 2 diabetes.
Diet. Eating red meat and processed meat and drinking sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes.
Family history. Children's risk of type 2 diabetes increases if they have a parent or sibling with the disease.
Race or ethnicity. Although it's unclear why, certain people — including Black, Hispanic, American Indian and Asian American people — are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes.
Age and sex. Many children develop type 2 diabetes in their early teens, but it may occur at any age. Adolescent girls are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than are adolescent boys.
Maternal gestational diabetes. Children born to women who had gestational diabetes during pregnancy have a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Low birth weight or preterm birth. Having a low birth weight is associated with a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Babies born prematurely — before 39 to 42 weeks' gestation —have a greater risk of type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes in children is often associated with metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovarian syndrome.
Metabolic syndrome
When certain conditions occur with obesity, they are associated with insulin resistance and can increase the risk of diabetes — and heart disease and stroke. A combination of the following conditions is often called metabolic syndrome:
High blood pressure
Low levels of high-density lipoproteins (HDL), the "good" cholesterol
High triglycerides
High blood sugar levels
Large waist size
Polycystic ovary syndrome
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) affects young females after puberty. PCOS is caused by an imbalance of hormones, resulting in signs such as weight gain, irregular menstrual periods, and excess face and body hair. People with PCOS often have problems with metabolism that can result in insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
Prevention
Healthy-lifestyle choices can help prevent type 2 diabetes in children. Encourage your child to:
Eat healthy foods. Offer your child foods low in fat and calories. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Strive for variety to prevent boredom.
Get more physical activity. Encourage your child to become active. Sign up your child for a sports team or dance lessons.
Better yet, make it a family affair. The lifestyle choices that can help prevent type 2 diabetes in children can do the same for adults.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Ulcerative colitis
Home Remedies
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing ulcerative colitis. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to keep track of what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating them.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help you manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant — that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help as well.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of liquids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Stress
Although stress doesn't cause inflammatory bowel disease, it can make your signs and symptoms worse and may trigger flare-ups.
To help control stress, try:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and correct bowel function. Talk to your health care provider about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique helps you reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. An effective way to cope with stress is to perform relaxation and breathing exercises. You can take classes in yoga and meditation or practice at home using books, CDs or DVDs.
Symptoms=Ulcerative colitis symptoms can vary, depending on the severity of inflammation and where it occurs. Signs and symptoms may include:
Diarrhea, often with blood or pus
Rectal bleeding — passing small amount of blood with stool
Abdominal pain and cramping
Rectal pain
Urgency to defecate
Inability to defecate despite urgency
Weight loss
Fatigue
Fever
In children, failure to grow
Most people with ulcerative colitis have mild to moderate symptoms. The course of ulcerative colitis may vary, with some people having long periods when it goes away. This is called remission.
Types
Health care providers often classify ulcerative colitis according to its location. Symptoms of each type often overlap. Types of ulcerative colitis include:
Ulcerative proctitis. Inflammation is confined to the area closest to the anus, also called the rectum. Rectal bleeding may be the only sign of the disease.
Proctosigmoiditis. Inflammation involves the rectum and sigmoid colon — the lower end of the colon. Symptoms include bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramps and pain, and an inability to move the bowels despite the urge to do so. This is called tenesmus.
Left-sided colitis. Inflammation extends from the rectum up through the sigmoid and descending portions of the colon. Symptoms include bloody diarrhea, abdominal cramping and pain on the left side, and urgency to defecate.
Pancolitis. This type often affects the entire colon and causes bouts of bloody diarrhea that may be severe, abdominal cramps and pain, fatigue, and significant weight loss.
Risk Factors
Ulcerative colitis affects about the same number of women and men. Risk factors may include:
Age. Ulcerative colitis usually begins before the age of 30, but it can occur at any age. Some people may not develop the disease until after age 60.
Race or ethnicity. Although white people have the highest risk of the disease, it can occur in any race. If you're of Ashkenazi Jewish descent, your risk is even higher.
Family history. You're at higher risk if you have a close relative, such as a parent, sibling or child, with the disease.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Undescended testicle
Home Remedies
Even after surgery, it's important to check your baby's testicles to make sure they develop properly. You can check the position of the testicles during diaper changes and baths.
When your child is about to reach puberty, the two of you can talk about what physical changes to expect. During the talk, you can explain how your child can check the testicles without your help. Your child should do a self-exam each month. This is a key skill to help find lumps and other possible symptoms of tumors early. Make an appointment with your child's doctor if your child notices any unusual changes in the testicles.
Symptoms=Not seeing or feeling a testicle in the scrotum is the main symptom of an undescended testicle.
Testicles form in an unborn baby's lower belly. During the last few months of pregnancy, the testicles typically move down from the stomach area. They move through a tubelike passage in the groin, called the inguinal canal, and descend into the scrotum. With an undescended testicle, that process stops or is delayed.
Risk Factors
Things that might raise the risk of an undescended testicle in a newborn include:
Premature birth or low birth weight.
Family history of undescended testicles.
Health conditions in the baby, such as cerebral palsy or a problem with the wall of the abdomen.
The mother having diabetes before or during pregnancy.
Alcohol use during pregnancy.
Smoking cigarettes or exposure to secondhand smoke during pregnancy.
Exposure to some pesticides during pregnancy.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Urinary incontinence
Home Remedies
Problems with urine leakage may require you to take extra care to prevent skin irritation:
Use a washcloth to clean yourself.
Allow your skin to air-dry.
Avoid frequent washing and douching because these can overwhelm your body's natural defenses against bladder infections.
Consider using a barrier cream, such as petroleum jelly or cocoa butter, to protect your skin from urine.
Ask your doctor about special cleansers made to remove urine that may be less drying than other products.
If you have urge incontinence or nighttime incontinence, make the toilet more convenient:
Move any rugs or furniture you might trip over or collide with on the way to the toilet.
Use a night light to illuminate your path and reduce your risk of falling.
If you have functional incontinence, you might:
Keep a bedside commode in your bedroom
Install an elevated toilet seat
Widen an existing bathroom doorway
More Information
Urinary incontinence care at Mayo Clinic
Bladder control: Lifestyle strategies
Symptoms=Many people experience occasional, minor leaks of urine. Others may lose small to moderate amounts of urine more frequently.
Types of urinary incontinence include:
Stress incontinence. Urine leaks when you exert pressure on your bladder by coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting something heavy.
Urge incontinence. You have a sudden, intense urge to urinate followed by an involuntary loss of urine. You may need to urinate often, including throughout the night. Urge incontinence may be caused by a minor condition, such as infection, or a more severe condition such as a neurological disorder or diabetes.
Overflow incontinence. You experience frequent or constant dribbling of urine due to a bladder that doesn't empty completely.
Functional incontinence. A physical or mental impairment keeps you from making it to the toilet in time. For example, if you have severe arthritis, you may not be able to unbutton your pants quickly enough.
Mixed incontinence. You experience more than one type of urinary incontinence — most often this refers to a combination of stress incontinence and urge incontinence.
Risk Factors
Factors that increase your risk of developing urinary incontinence include:
Gender. Women are more likely to have stress incontinence. Pregnancy, childbirth, menopause and normal female anatomy account for this difference. However, men who have prostate gland problems are at increased risk of urge and overflow incontinence.
Age. As you get older, the muscles in your bladder and urethra lose some of their strength. Changes with age reduce how much your bladder can hold and increase the chances of involuntary urine release.
Being overweight. Extra weight increases pressure on your bladder and surrounding muscles, which weakens them and allows urine to leak out when you cough or sneeze.
Smoking. Tobacco use may increase your risk of urinary incontinence.
Family history. If a close family member has urinary incontinence, especially urge incontinence, your risk of developing the condition is higher.
Some diseases. Neurological disease or diabetes may increase your risk of incontinence.
Prevention
Urinary incontinence isn't always preventable. However, to help decrease your risk:
Maintain a healthy weight
Practice pelvic floor exercises
Avoid bladder irritants, such as caffeine, alcohol and acidic foods
Eat more fiber, which can prevent constipation, a cause of urinary incontinence
Don't smoke, or seek help to quit if you're a smoker
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Urinary tract infection (UTI)
Home Remedies
Urinary tract infections can be painful, but you can take steps to ease discomfort until antibiotics treat the infection. Follow these tips:
Drink plenty of water. Water helps to dilute your urine and flush out bacteria.
Avoid drinks that may irritate your bladder. Avoid coffee, alcohol, and soft drinks containing citrus juices or caffeine until the infection has cleared. They can irritate your bladder and tend to increase the need to urinate.
Use a heating pad. Apply a warm, but not hot, heating pad to your belly to help with bladder pressure or discomfort.
Symptoms=UTIs don't always cause symptoms. When they do, they may include:
A strong urge to urinate that doesn't go away
A burning feeling when urinating
Urinating often, and passing small amounts of urine
Urine that looks cloudy
Urine that appears red, bright pink or cola-colored — signs of blood in the urine
Strong-smelling urine
Pelvic pain, in women — especially in the center of the pelvis and around the area of the pubic bone
In older adults, UTIs may be overlooked or mistaken for other conditions.
Types of urinary tract infections
Each type of UTI may result in more-specific symptoms. The symptoms depend on which part of the urinary tract is affected.
Part of urinary tract affected Signs and symptoms
Kidneys
Back or side pain
High fever
Shaking and chills
Nausea
Vomiting
Bladder
Pelvic pressure
Lower belly discomfort
Frequent, painful urination
Blood in urine
Urethra
Burning with urination
Discharge
Risk Factors
UTIs are common in women. Many women experience more than one UTI during their lifetimes.
Risk factors for UTIs that are specific to women include:
Female anatomy. Women have a shorter urethra than men do. As a result, there's less distance for bacteria to travel to reach the bladder.
Sexual activity. Being sexually active tends to lead to more UTIs. Having a new sexual partner also increases risk.
Certain types of birth control. Using diaphragms for birth control may increase the risk of UTIs. Using spermicidal agents also can increase risk.
Menopause. After menopause, a decline in circulating estrogen causes changes in the urinary tract. The changes can increase the risk of UTIs.
Other risk factors for UTIs include:
Urinary tract problems. Babies born with problems with their urinary tracts may have trouble urinating. Urine can back up in the urethra, which can cause UTIs.
Blockages in the urinary tract. Kidney stones or an enlarged prostate can trap urine in the bladder. As a result, risk of UTIs is higher.
A suppressed immune system. Diabetes and other diseases can impair the immune system — the body's defense against germs. This can increase the risk of UTIs.
Catheter use. People who can't urinate on their own often must use a tube, called a catheter, to urinate. Using a catheter increases the risk of UTIs. Catheters may be used by people who are in the hospital. They may also be used by people who have neurological problems that make it difficult to control urination or who are paralyzed.
A recent urinary procedure. Urinary surgery or an exam of your urinary tract that involves medical instruments can both increase the risk of developing a UTI.
Prevention
These steps may help lower the risk of UTIs:
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking water helps dilute the urine. That leads to urinating more often — allowing bacteria to be flushed from the urinary tract before an infection can begin.
Try cranberry juice. Studies that look into whether cranberry juice prevents UTIs aren't final. However, drinking cranberry juice is likely not harmful.
Wipe from front to back. Do this after urinating and after a bowel movement. It helps prevent the spread of bacteria from the anus to the vagina and urethra.
Empty your bladder soon after having sex. Also drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid potentially irritating feminine products. Using them in the genital area can irritate the urethra. These products include deodorant sprays, douches and powders.
Change your birth control method. Diaphragms, unlubricated condoms or condoms treated with spermicide can contribute to bacterial growth.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Urine color
Home Remedies
When you're dehydrated, your urine becomes darker in color. If this happens, it might mean you need more fluids. Make sure you drink enough fluids daily to stay hydrated and keep yourself healthy.
Symptoms=The regular color of urine varies. It depends on how much water you drink. Fluids dilute the yellow pigments in urine. So the more you drink, the clearer your urine looks. When you drink less, the yellow color becomes stronger.
But urine can turn colors far beyond what's typical, including:
Red.
Blue.
Green.
Orange.
Dark brown.
Cloudy white.
Risk Factors
A change in urine color that isn't due to foods or medicine could be caused by a health problem. Some things that put you at risk of health problems that can affect urine color are:
Age. Tumors of the bladder and kidney, which can cause blood in the urine, are more common in older people. Men older than 50 sometimes have blood in the urine due to an enlarged prostate gland.
Family history. If any of your blood relatives, such as a parent, sibling or grandparent, have kidney disease or kidney stones, you're more likely to get them too. Both kidney disease and kidney stones can cause blood in the urine.
Hard exercise. Distance runners are most at risk. But anyone who exercises hard can have blood in the urine.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Uterine prolapse
Home Remedies
Depending on how severe uterine prolapse is, self-care measures might provide relief from symptoms. You might try to:
Strengthen the muscles that support pelvic structures
Eat high-fiber foods and drink lots of fluids to avoid constipation
Avoid bearing down during bowel movements
Avoid heavy lifting
Control coughing
Lose weight if you're overweight
Quit smoking
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises can strengthen pelvic floor muscles. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for pelvic organs. This might relieve symptoms that can happen with uterine prolapse.
To do these exercises:
Tighten pelvic floor muscles as though trying to prevent passing gas.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, and then relax for five seconds. If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.
Work up to holding the contractions for 10 seconds at a time.
Aim for at least three sets of 10 repetitions every day.
Kegel exercises might be most successful when a physical therapist teaches them and reinforces the exercises with biofeedback. Biofeedback uses monitoring devices that help ensure proper tightening of the muscles for long enough to work well.
Once you learn how to do them properly, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether sitting at a desk or relaxing on the couch.
Symptoms=Mild uterine prolapse is common after childbirth. It generally doesn't cause symptoms. Symptoms of moderate to severe uterine prolapse include:
Seeing or feeling tissue bulge out of the vagina
Feeling heaviness or pulling in the pelvis
Feeling like the bladder doesn't empty all the way when you use the bathroom
Problems with leaking urine, also called incontinence
Trouble having a bowel movement and needing to press the vagina with your fingers to help have a bowel movement
Feeling as if you're sitting on a small ball
Feeling as if you have vaginal tissue rubbing on clothing
Pressure or discomfort in the pelvis or low back
Sexual concerns, such as feeling as though the vaginal tissue is loose
Risk Factors
Factors that can increase the risk of uterine prolapse include:
Having one or more vaginal births
Being older when you have your first baby
Giving birth to a large baby
Aging
Obesity
Prior pelvic surgery
Chronic constipation or often straining during bowel movements
Family history of weak connective tissue
Being Hispanic or white
Chronic coughing, such as from smoking
Prevention
To reduce the risk of uterine prolapse, try to:
Prevent constipation. Drink plenty of fluids and eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, beans and whole-grains.
Avoid heavy lifting. If you have to lift something heavy, do it correctly. Correct lifting uses the legs instead of the waist or back.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis. Don't smoke.
Avoid weight gain. Talk with your doctor about your ideal weight and get advice on how to lose weight, if you need to.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Varicocele
Home Remedies
If you have a varicocele that causes minor discomfort, but doesn't affect your fertility, you might try the following for pain relief:
Take nonprescription pain medicine, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others).
Support the scrotum by wearing an athletic supporter or snug briefs.
Symptoms=A varicocele usually occurs on the left side of the scrotum and often produces no signs or symptoms. Possible signs and symptoms may include:
Pain. A dull, aching pain or discomfort is more likely when standing or late in the day. Lying down often relieves pain.
A mass in the scrotum. If a varicocele is large enough, a mass like a "bag of worms" may be visible above the testicle. A smaller varicocele may be too small to see but noticeable by touch.
Differently sized testicles. The affected testicle may be noticeably smaller than the other testicle.
Infertility. A varicocele may lead to difficulty fathering a child, but not all varicoceles cause infertility.
Risk Factors
There don't appear to be any significant risk factors for developing a varicocele.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/11/15/17/40/ds00410_-ds00618_im02248_r7_varicocele_jpg.jpg
Condition
Varicose veins
Home Remedies
Try these lifestyle and home remedies for varicose veins:
Get regular exercise. Walking is a great way to help blood flow in the legs. Your healthcare professional can suggest a good activity level for you.
Manage weight. Losing excess pounds takes pressure off the veins.
Avoid salt. Follow a low-salt diet to prevent swelling caused when the body holds in water.
Choose proper footwear. Don't wear high heels. Low-heeled shoes work calf muscles more. This is better for your veins.
Don't wear tight clothes. Tight clothes around your waist, legs or groin can reduce blood flow.
Raise your legs. To improve blood flow in your legs, take a few short breaks daily to raise the legs above the level of the heart. For instance, lie down with your legs resting on three or four pillows. You also can raise the foot of the bed six inches.
Change position often. Don't sit or stand for long periods. Moving helps blood flow.
Symptoms=Spider veins
Enlarge image
Varicose veins might not cause pain. Symptoms of varicose veins include:
Veins that are dark purple, blue or the same color as the skin. Depending on skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Veins that look twisted and bulging. They often look like cords on the legs.
When there are painful symptoms of varicose veins, they might include:
An achy or heavy feeling in the legs.
Burning, throbbing, muscle cramping and swelling in the lower legs.
Worse pain after sitting or standing for a long time.
Itching around one or more of the veins.
Changes in skin color around a varicose vein.
Spider veins are like varicose veins, but they're smaller. Spider veins are found closer to the skin's surface and might look like a spider's web.
Spider veins occur on the legs but also can be found on the face. They vary in size and often look like a spider's web.
Risk Factors
The two main risk factors for varicose veins are:
Family history. If other family members have varicose veins, there's a greater chance you will too.
Obesity. Being overweight puts added pressure on veins.
Other things that might increase the risk of varicose veins include:
Age. Aging causes wear and tear on the valves in the veins that help control blood flow. Over time, that wear causes the valves to allow some blood to flow back into the veins, where it collects.
Sex. Women are more likely to get the condition. Hormones tend to relax vein walls. So changes in hormones before a menstrual period or during pregnancy or menopause might be a factor. Hormone treatments, such as birth control pills, might increase the risk of varicose veins.
Pregnancy. During pregnancy, the blood volume in the body increases. This change supports the growing baby but also can make the veins in the legs bigger.
Standing or sitting for long periods of time. Movement helps blood flow.
Prevention
Getting better blood flow and muscle tone might lower the risk of having varicose veins. The same ways you treat the discomfort from varicose veins can help prevent them. Try the following:
Don't wear high heels or tight stockings, other than compression stockings.
Change how you sit or stand often.
Eat a high-fiber, low-salt diet.
Exercise.
Raise your legs when sitting or lying down.
Keep a healthy weight.
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Vesicoureteral reflux
Home Remedies
Urinary tract infections, which are so common to vesicoureteral reflux, can be painful. But you can take steps to ease your child's discomfort until antibiotics clear the infection. They include:
Encourage your child to drink fluids, particularly water. Drinking water dilutes urine and may help flush out bacteria.
Provide a heating pad or a warm blanket or towel. Warmth can help minimize feelings of pressure or pain. If you don't have a heating pad, place a towel or blanket in the dryer for a few minutes to warm it up. Be sure the towel or blanket is just warm, not hot, and then place it over your child's abdomen.
If bladder and bowel dysfunction (BBD) contributes to your child's vesicoureteral reflux, encourage healthy toileting habits. Avoiding constipation and emptying the bladder every two hours while awake may help.
Symptoms=Urinary tract infections commonly occur in people with vesicoureteral reflux. A urinary tract infection (UTI) doesn't always cause noticeable signs and symptoms, though most people have some.
These signs and symptoms can include:
A strong, persistent urge to urinate
A burning sensation when urinating
The need to pass small amounts of urine frequently
Cloudy urine
Fever
Pain in your side (flank) or abdomen
A UTI may be difficult to diagnose in children, who may have only nonspecific signs and symptoms. Signs and symptoms in infants with a UTI may also include:
An unexplained fever
Lack of appetite
Irritability
As your child gets older, untreated vesicoureteral reflux can lead to:
Bed-wetting
Constipation or loss of control over bowel movements
High blood pressure
Protein in urine
Another indication of vesicoureteral reflux, which may be detected before birth by sonogram, is swelling of the kidneys or the urine-collecting structures of one or both kidneys (hydronephrosis) in the fetus, caused by the backup of urine into the kidneys.
Risk Factors
Risk factors for vesicoureteral reflux include:
Bladder and bowel dysfunction (BBD). Children with BBD hold their urine and stool and experience recurrent urinary tract infections, which can contribute to vesicoureteral reflux.
Race. White children appear to have a higher risk of vesicoureteral reflux.
Sex. Generally, girls have a much higher risk of having this condition than boys do. The exception is for vesicoureteral reflux that's present at birth, which is more common in boys.
Age. Infants and children up to age 2 are more likely to have vesicoureteral reflux than older children are.
Family history. Primary vesicoureteral reflux tends to run in families. Children whose parents had the condition are at higher risk of developing it. Siblings of children who have the condition also are at higher risk, so your doctor may recommend screening for siblings of a child with primary vesicoureteral reflux.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Vulvodynia
Home Remedies
Simple self-care steps may help you manage vulvodynia symptoms.
Some tips for work are:
Get comfortable. If you sit a lot during the day, use a foam rubber-donut cushion.
Try to stand more. This takes pressure off the areas around your vulva.
Tips for exercise include:
Limit high-intensity exercises, such as running. These create friction that can irritate the vulva.
Use a frozen gel pack after exercise. Wrap it in a towel and put in on your vulva for up to 15 minutes to ease any symptoms.
Limit activities that put pressure on your vulva, such as biking or horseback riding.
Tips for bathing and swimming include:
Wash gently. Scrubbing the affected area harshly or washing too often can make irritation worse. Instead, use plain lukewarm or cool water to gently clean your vulva with your hand. Then pat the area dry. After you bathe, put on a preservative-free emollient, such as plain petroleum jelly. This creates a protective barrier.
Stay away from products that can irritate the vulva. Don't use bubble bath, feminine hygiene products, or perfumed creams or soaps.
Soak in a sitz bath. Two to three times a day, sit in lukewarm or cool water with Epsom salts or colloidal oatmeal for 5 to 10 minutes. This may help relieve burning and irritation.
Stay out of hot tubs and hot baths. Spending time in hot water can cause discomfort and itching.
Swim in pools that don't have a lot of chlorine. This pool disinfectant keeps the water clean, but too much can be irritating.
Some hygiene tips are:
Don't use deodorant tampons or pads. The deodorant can be irritating. Instead, use pads and tampons that are 100% cotton.
Use toilet paper that is soft, white and unscented.
Urinate before your bladder feels full. Then rinse your vulva with water and pat dry.
Some tips for clothing and laundry are:
Wear loose-fitting clothes. Tight clothing limits airflow to your vulva, which can be irritating to the area. Wear 100% cotton underwear instead of nylon underwear. Try sleeping without underwear at night. Also make sure to wear loose pants and skirts. Choose thigh-high or knee-high hose instead of pantyhose.
After a workout, take off exercise clothes right away. Remove a wet bathing suit after you swim too.
Use laundry detergents made for sensitive skin. And don't use fabric softener on underwear.
If your washing machine has a double- or extra-rinse cycle, use it on clothes that come in contact with your vulva. This helps rinse off detergent.
If you're sexually active:
Use a water-based lubricant. Put it on before you have sex. Don't use products that contain alcohol, dyes, perfume, flavor, or warming or cooling ingredients.
Choose your birth control with care. Keep in mind that spermicide or contraceptive creams may be irritating. Talk with your doctor or other member of your care team about a form of birth control that won't irritate your vulva.
Urinate after sex. This can lower your chances of getting an infection. After you urinate, rinse your vulva with cool water and pat dry.
Try cold compresses or gel packs to ease burning. Wrap them in a towel and place them on your vulva for 15 minutes at a time.
Symptoms=Vulva
Enlarge image
The main vulvodynia symptom is pain in the vulva, which includes the opening of the vagina. The pain often is described as:
Burning.
Irritation.
Stinging.
Rawness.
Soreness.
Sharp or knife-like pain.
You also may feel aching, throbbing and swelling.
How often the symptoms happen and where exactly they're felt varies from person to person. Your pain might be constant, or it may come and go. It might flare up only when the vulva is touched. You might feel the pain throughout your entire vulva. This is called generalized vulvodynia. Or the pain may flare up in a certain area, such as the tissue surrounding the opening of the vagina, called the vestibule. This is known as localized vulvodynia, and it's more common than the generalized kind.
The tissue of the vulva might look slightly inflamed or swollen. More often, your vulva doesn't look different than usual.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Wet macular degeneration
Home Remedies
Even after receiving a diagnosis of wet macular degeneration, you can take steps that may help slow vision loss.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting.
Choose a healthy diet. The antioxidant vitamins in fruits and vegetables contribute to eye health. Kale, spinach, broccoli, squash and other vegetables have high levels of antioxidants, including lutein and zeaxanthin. These nutrients may benefit people with macular degeneration.
Eating foods containing high levels of zinc also may be helpful for people with macular degeneration. These include high-protein foods, such as beef, pork and lamb. Nonmeat sources include milk, cheese, yogurt, whole-grain cereals and whole-wheat bread.
Another good choice is healthy unsaturated fat, such as in olive oil. And research studies have shown that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as in salmon, tuna and walnuts, may lower the risk of advanced macular degeneration. But the same benefit is not shown from taking omega-3 supplements, such as fish oil pills.
Manage your other medical conditions. If you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, for example, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Have routine eye exams. Ask your eye doctor about the recommended schedule for follow-up exams. In between checkups, you can do a self-assessment of your vision using an Amsler grid.
Vitamin supplements
For people with intermediate or advanced disease, taking a high-dose formulation of antioxidant vitamins and minerals may help reduce the risk of vision loss. Research from the Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 (AREDS2) has shown benefit in a formulation that includes:
500 milligrams (mg) of vitamin C.
400 international units (IU) of vitamin E.
10 mg of lutein.
2 mg of zeaxanthin.
80 mg of zinc (as zinc oxide).
2 mg of copper (as cupric oxide).
Ask your health care provider if taking supplements is right for you.
More Information
Wet macular degeneration care at Mayo Clinic
Living better with vision loss
Symptoms=Wet macular degeneration symptoms usually appear suddenly and worsen quickly. They may include:
Visual distortions, such as straight lines seeming bent.
Reduced central vision in one or both eyes.
The need for brighter light when reading or doing close-up work.
Difficulty adjusting to low light levels, such as when entering a dimly lit restaurant or theater.
Increased blurriness of printed words.
Difficulty recognizing faces.
A well-defined blurry spot or blind spot in the field of vision.
Macular degeneration doesn't affect side vision, so it doesn't cause total blindness.
Risk Factors
Factors that may increase your risk of macular degeneration include:
Age. This disease is most common in people over 55.
Family history and genetics. This disease has a genetic component. Researchers have identified several genes linked to the condition.
Race. Macular degeneration is more common in white people.
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes or being regularly exposed to tobacco smoke greatly increases your risk of macular degeneration.
Obesity. Research indicates that being obese increases the chance that early or intermediate macular degeneration will progress to a more severe form of the disease.
Cardiovascular disease. If you have diseases that affect your heart and blood vessels, you may be at higher risk of macular degeneration.
Prevention
It's important to have routine eye exams to identify early signs of macular degeneration. The following measures may help reduce your risk of developing wet macular degeneration:
Manage all other medical conditions. For example, if you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Don't smoke. Smokers are more likely to develop macular degeneration than nonsmokers. Ask your provider for help stopping smoking.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. These foods contain antioxidant vitamins that reduce your risk of developing macular degeneration.
Include fish in your diet. Omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in fish, may reduce the risk of macular degeneration. Nuts such as walnuts also contain omega-3 fatty acids.
More Information
Wet macular degeneration care at Mayo Clinic
How can I reduce my risk of wet age-related macular degeneration?
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Wilson's disease
Home Remedies
If you have Wilson's disease, your doctor likely will recommend that you limit the amount of copper in your diet. Also, if you have copper pipes in your home, you might want to test the copper levels in your tap water. Be sure to stay away from multivitamins that contain copper.
Foods that contain high amounts of copper include:
Liver.
Shellfish.
Mushrooms.
Nuts.
Chocolate.
Ask your healthcare team for more information on foods that have high amounts of copper.
Symptoms=Wilson's disease is present at birth, but symptoms don't appear until copper levels build up in the brain, liver, eyes or another organ. Symptoms vary based on the parts of your body the disease affects.
These symptoms can include:
Tiredness and loss of appetite.
A yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eye, known as jaundice.
Golden-brown or copper-colored rings around the irises of the eyes, known as Kayser-Fleischer rings.
Fluid buildup in the legs or stomach area.
Problems with speech, swallowing or physical coordination.
Depression, mood changes and personality changes.
Having a hard time falling asleep and staying asleep.
Uncontrolled movements or muscle stiffness.
Risk Factors
You can be at greater risk of Wilson's disease if your parents or siblings have the condition. Ask your doctor whether you should have genetic testing to find out if you have Wilson's disease. Diagnosing the condition as early as possible greatly increases the chances of successful treatment.
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image URL: image url not found
Condition
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome
Home Remedies
If you have WPW syndrome or any type of heart disease, your healthcare team usually recommends following a heart-healthy lifestyle. Take these steps:
Do not smoke.
Eat a healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Limit or avoid alcohol.
Avoid caffeine or other stimulants.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage emotional stress.
Symptoms=The heart rate is the number of times the heart beats each minute. A fast heart rate is called tachycardia (tak-ih-KAHR-dee-uh).
The most common symptom of Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a heart rate greater than 100 beats a minute.
In WPW syndrome, the fast heartbeat can begin suddenly. It may last a few seconds or several hours. Episodes may occur during exercise or while at rest.
Other symptoms of WPW syndrome may depend on the speed of the heartbeat and the underlying heart rhythm disorder.
For example, the most common irregular heartbeat seen with WPW syndrome is supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). During an episode of SVT, the heart beats about 150 to 220 times a minute, but it can occasionally beat faster or slower.
Some people with WPW syndrome also have a fast and chaotic heart rhythm disorder called atrial fibrillation.
In general, symptoms of WPW syndrome include:
Rapid, fluttering or pounding heartbeats.
Chest pain.
Difficulty breathing.
Dizziness or lightheadedness.
Fainting.
Fatigue.
Shortness of breath.
Anxiety.
Symptoms in infants
Infants with WPW may have other symptoms, such as:
Blue or gray skin, lips and nails. These changes may be harder or easier to see depending on skin color.
Restlessness or irritability.
Rapid breathing.
Poor eating.
Some people with an extra electrical pathway don't have symptoms of a fast heartbeat. This condition is called Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) pattern. It's often discovered by chance during a heart test.
Risk Factors
Not found
Prevention=No Preventions mentioned
Image Url:https://www.mayoclinic.org/-/media/kcms/gbs/patient-consumer/images/2013/08/26/11/01/ds00923_ds00290_im03135_r7_wpwthu_jpg.jpg
Condition
Wrist pain
Home Remedies
Wrist pain doesn't always require medical treatment. For a minor wrist injury, apply ice and wrap your wrist with an elastic bandage.
Symptoms=Wrist pain may vary, depending on the cause. For example, osteoarthritis pain often is described as being similar to a dull toothache. Carpal tunnel syndrome usually causes a pins-and-needles feeling. This tingling sensation usually occurs in the thumb and index and middle fingers, especially at night. The precise location of wrist pain also provides clues to what's behind the symptoms.
Risk Factors
Wrist pain can happen to anyone — whether you're very sedentary, very active or somewhere in between. But the risk may be increased by:
Sports participation. Wrist injuries are common in many sports, both those that involve impact and those that involve repetitive stress on the wrist. These can include football, bowling, golf, gymnastics, snowboarding and tennis.
Repetitive work. Almost any activity that involves your hands and wrists, even knitting and cutting hair, if performed forcefully enough and often enough can lead to disabling wrist pain.
Certain diseases or conditions. Pregnancy, diabetes, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis and gout may increase the risk of developing carpal tunnel syndrome.
Prevention
It's impossible to prevent the unforeseen events that often cause wrist injuries, but these basic tips may offer some protection:
Build bone strength. Getting adequate amounts of calcium can help prevent fractures. For most adults, that means 1,000 to 1,200 milligrams a day.
Prevent falls. Falling forward onto an outstretched hand is the main cause of most wrist injuries. To help prevent falls, wear sensible shoes. Remove home hazards. Light up your living space. And install grab bars in your bathroom and handrails on your stairways, if necessary.
Use protective gear for athletic activities. Wear wrist guards for high-risk activities, such as football, snowboarding and rollerblading.
Pay attention to ergonomics. If you spend long periods at a keyboard, take regular breaks. When you type, keep your wrists in a relaxed, neutral position. An ergonomic keyboard and a foam or gel wrist support may help.



By Mayo Clinic Staff
Prevention
It's impossible to prevent the unforeseen events that often cause wrist injuries, but these basic tips may offer some protection:
Build bone strength. Getting adequate amounts of calcium can help prevent fractures. For most adults, that means 1,000 to 1,200 milligrams a day.
Prevent falls. Falling forward onto an outstretched hand is the main cause of most wrist injuries. To help prevent falls, wear sensible shoes. Remove home hazards. Light up your living space. And install grab bars in your bathroom and handrails on your stairways, if necessary.
Use protective gear for athletic activities. Wear wrist guards for high-risk activities, such as football, snowboarding and rollerblading.
Pay attention to ergonomics. If you spend long periods at a keyboard, take regular breaks. When you type, keep your wrists in a relaxed, neutral position. An ergonomic keyboard and a foam or gel wrist support may help.
Image URL: image url not found
