Condition name:Abdominal aortic aneurysm
Overview of Abdominal aortic aneurysm:
An abdominal aortic aneurysm is an enlarged area in the lower part of the body's main artery, called the aorta. The aorta runs from the heart through the center of the chest and belly area, called the abdomen.
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body. An abdominal aortic aneurysm that ruptures can cause life-threatening bleeding.
Treatment depends on the size of the aneurysm and how fast it's growing. Treatment varies from regular health checkups and imaging tests to emergency surgery.
Home Remedies for Abdominal aortic aneurysm:
Your health care provider may tell you to avoid heavy lifting and vigorous physical activity. These activities may cause extreme increases in blood pressure, which can worsen an aneurysm.
Emotional stress also can raise blood pressure. Try to avoid conflict and stressful situations. If you're feeling stressed or anxious, let your care provider know. Together you can come up with the best treatment plan.
Symptoms for Abdominal aortic aneurysm :
Abdominal aortic aneurysms often grow slowly without noticeable symptoms. This makes them difficult to detect. Some aneurysms never rupture. Many start small and stay small. Others grow larger over time, sometimes quickly.
If you have a growing abdominal aortic aneurysm, you might notice:
Deep, constant pain in the belly area or side of the belly.
Back pain.
A pulse near the bellybutton.
Causes for Abdominal aortic aneurysm :
Aneurysms can develop anywhere along the aorta. Most aortic aneurysms occur in the part of the aorta that's in the belly area, called the abdomen. Several things can lead to the development of an abdominal aortic aneurysm, including:
Hardening of the arteries, called atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis occurs when fat and other substances build up on the lining of a blood vessel.
High blood pressure. High blood pressure can damage and weaken the aorta's walls.
Blood vessel diseases. These are diseases that cause blood vessels to become inflamed.
Infection in the aorta. Rarely, infection by certain bacteria or fungi might cause an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Trauma. For example, being injured in a car accident can cause an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Risk Factors for Abdominal aortic aneurysm:
Abdominal aortic aneurysm risk factors include:
Tobacco use. Smoking is the strongest risk factor for aortic aneurysms. Smoking can weaken the walls of blood vessels, including the aorta. This raises the risk of aortic aneurysm and aneurysm rupture. The longer and more you use tobacco, the greater the chances are of developing an aortic aneurysm. Men ages 65 to 75 who are current or former smokers should have a one-time ultrasound to screen for an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Age. Abdominal aortic aneurysms occur most often in people age 65 and older.
Being male. Men develop abdominal aortic aneurysms much more often than women do.
Being white. People who are white are at higher risk of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
Family history. Having a family history of abdominal aortic aneurysms increases the risk of having the condition.
Other aneurysms. Having an aneurysm in the aorta in the chest (thoracic aortic aneurysm) or in another large blood vessel, such as the artery behind the knee, might increase the risk of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
If you're at risk of an aortic aneurysm, medicines may be given to lower your blood pressure and relieve stress on weakened arteries.
Complications for Abdominal aortic aneurysm:
Complications of abdominal aortic aneurysms include:
Tears in one or more of the layers of the wall of the aorta, called an aortic dissection.
Rupture of the aneurysm.
A rupture can cause life-threatening internal bleeding. In general, the larger the aneurysm and the faster it grows, the greater the risk of rupture.
Symptoms that an aortic aneurysm has ruptured can include:
Sudden, intense and persistent belly or back pain, which may feel like ripping or tearing.
Low blood pressure.
Fast pulse.
Aortic aneurysms also increase the risk of developing blood clots in the area. If a blood clot breaks loose from the inside wall of an aneurysm, it can block a blood vessel elsewhere in the body. Symptoms of a blocked blood vessel may include pain or reduced blood flow to the legs, toes, kidneys or belly area.
Preventions for Abdominal aortic aneurysm
To prevent an abdominal aortic aneurysm or to keep one from worsening, do the following:
Don't smoke or use tobacco products. If you smoke or chew tobacco, quit. Also avoid secondhand smoke. If you need help quitting, talk to your health care provider about strategies that may help.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, chicken, fish, and low-fat dairy products. Avoid saturated and trans fats and limit salt.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. If your care provider prescribed medicines, take them as instructed.
Get regular exercise. Try to get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity. If you haven't been active, start slowly and build up. Talk to your health care provider about what kinds of activities are right for you.
Condition name:Absence seizure
Overview of Absence seizure:
Absence seizures involve brief, sudden lapses of consciousness. They're more common in children than in adults.
A person having an absence seizure may stare blankly into space for a few seconds. Then the person typically returns quickly to being alert. This type of seizure usually doesn't lead to physical injury. But injury can result during the period when the person loses consciousness. This is particularly true if someone is driving a car or riding a bike when the seizure happens.
Absence seizures usually can be controlled with anti-seizure medicines. Some children who have them also develop other seizures, such as generalized tonic-clonic seizures or myoclonic seizures. Many children outgrow absence seizures in their teens.
Home Remedies for Absence seizure:
Dietary therapy
A ketogenic diet can improve seizure control. This diet is high in fat and low in carbohydrates. It's used only if traditional medicines fail to control the seizures.
This diet isn't easy to maintain, but it's successful at reducing seizures for some people. Variations on a ketogenic diet also might provide benefit. These diets include the glycemic index and modified Atkins diets. Although these diets are less effective at controlling seizures, they aren't as restrictive as the ketogenic diet.
Additional options
Here are other steps that may help with seizure control:
Have your child take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your child's health care provider. If you feel your child's medicine should be changed, discuss it with your child's provider.
Encourage enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure your child gets adequate rest every night.
Have your child wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency personnel know how to treat your child correctly if another seizure occurs.
Ask your child's health care provider about driving or recreation restrictions. Someone with a seizure disorder will have to be seizure-free for a certain length of time before being able to drive. The amount of time required since the last seizure varies from state to state. Don't bathe or swim unless someone else is nearby to help if needed.
Symptoms for Absence seizure :
A simple absence seizure causes a vacant stare, which may be mistaken for a brief lapse in attention. The seizure lasts about 10 seconds, though it may last as long as 30 seconds. There's no confusion, headache or drowsiness after the seizure.
Symptoms of absence seizures include:
A sudden stop in activity without falling.
Lip smacking.
Eyelid flutters.
Chewing motions.
Finger rubbing.
Small movements of both hands.
Afterward, there's usually no memory of the incident. But if the seizure is longer, the person may be aware of missed time. Some people have many episodes daily. When it happens, it can interfere with school or daily activities.
A child may have absence seizures for some time before an adult notices them. This is because the seizures are so brief. A decline in a child's learning ability may be the first sign of the seizure disorder. Teachers may say the child has trouble paying attention or that a child is often daydreaming.
Causes for Absence seizure :
Absence seizures usually have a genetic cause.
In general, seizures occur as a result of a burst of electrical impulses from nerve cells in the brain, called neurons. Neurons typically send electrical and chemical signals across the synapses that connect them.
In people who have seizures, the brain's usual electrical activity is altered. During an absence seizure, these electrical signals repeat themselves over and over in a three-second pattern.
People who have seizures also may have altered levels of the chemical messengers that help the nerve cells communicate with one another. These chemical messengers are called neurotransmitters.
Risk Factors for Absence seizure:
Certain factors are common to children who have absence seizures, including:
Age. Absence seizures are more common in children between the ages of 4 and 14.
Sex. Absence seizures are more common in females.
Family members who have seizures. Nearly a quarter of children with absence seizures have a close relative who has seizures.
Complications for Absence seizure:
While most children outgrow absence seizures, some:
Must take anti-seizure medicines throughout life.
Eventually have full convulsions, such as generalized tonic-clonic seizures.
Other complications can include:
Learning problems.
Behavior problems.
Social isolation.
Injury during the seizure.
There are no preventive measures available for Absence seizure in the knowledge baseCondition name:Achilles tendon rupture
Overview of Achilles tendon rupture:
Achilles (uh-KILL-eez) tendon rupture is an injury that affects the back of your lower leg. It mainly occurs in people playing recreational sports, but it can happen to anyone.
The Achilles tendon is a strong fibrous cord that connects the muscles in the back of your calf to your heel bone. If you overstretch your Achilles tendon, it can tear (rupture) completely or just partially.
If your Achilles tendon ruptures, you might hear a pop, followed by an immediate sharp pain in the back of your ankle and lower leg that is likely to affect your ability to walk properly. Surgery is often performed to repair the rupture. For many people, however, nonsurgical treatment works just as well.
There are no home remedies available for Achilles tendon rupture in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Achilles tendon rupture :
Although it's possible to have no signs or symptoms with an Achilles tendon rupture, most people have:
The feeling of having been kicked in the calf
Pain, possibly severe, and swelling near the heel
An inability to bend the foot downward or "push off" the injured leg when walking
An inability to stand on the toes on the injured leg
A popping or snapping sound when the injury occurs
Causes for Achilles tendon rupture :
Your Achilles tendon helps you point your foot downward, rise on your toes and push off your foot as you walk. You rely on it virtually every time you walk and move your foot.
Rupture usually occurs in the section of the tendon situated within 2 1/2 inches (about 6 centimeters) of the point where it attaches to the heel bone. This section might be prone to rupture because blood flow is poor, which also can impair its ability to heal.
Ruptures often are caused by a sudden increase in the stress on your Achilles tendon. Common examples include:
Increasing the intensity of sports participation, especially in sports that involve jumping
Falling from a height
Stepping into a hole
Risk Factors for Achilles tendon rupture:
Factors that may increase your risk of Achilles tendon rupture include:
Age. The peak age for Achilles tendon rupture is 30 to 40.
Sex. Achilles tendon rupture is up to five times more likely to occur in men than in women.
Recreational sports. Achilles tendon injuries occur more often during sports that involve running, jumping, and sudden starts and stops — such as soccer, basketball and tennis.
Steroid injections. Doctors sometimes inject steroids into an ankle joint to reduce pain and inflammation. However, this medication can weaken nearby tendons and has been associated with Achilles tendon ruptures.
Certain antibiotics. Fluoroquinolone antibiotics, such as ciprofloxacin (Cipro) or levofloxacin (Levaquin), increase the risk of Achilles tendon rupture.
Obesity. Excess weight puts more strain on the tendon.
There are no Complications available for Achilles tendon rupture in the knowledge basePreventions for Achilles tendon rupture
To reduce your chance of developing Achilles tendon problems, follow these tips:
Stretch and strengthen calf muscles. Stretch your calf until you feel a noticeable pull but not pain. Don't bounce during a stretch. Calf-strengthening exercises can also help the muscle and tendon absorb more force and prevent injury.
Vary your exercises. Alternate high-impact sports, such as running, with low-impact sports, such as walking, biking or swimming. Avoid activities that place excessive stress on your Achilles tendons, such as hill running and jumping activities.
Choose running surfaces carefully. Avoid or limit running on hard or slippery surfaces. Dress properly for cold-weather training, and wear well-fitting athletic shoes with proper cushioning in the heels.
Increase training intensity slowly. Achilles tendon injuries commonly occur after an abrupt increase in training intensity. Increase the distance, duration and frequency of your training by no more than 10 percent weekly.
Condition name:ACL injury
Overview of ACL injury:
An ACL injury is a tear or sprain of the anterior cruciate (KROO-she-ate) ligament (ACL) — one of the strong bands of tissue that help connect your thigh bone (femur) to your shinbone (tibia). ACL injuries most commonly occur during sports that involve sudden stops or changes in direction, jumping and landing — such as soccer, basketball, football and downhill skiing.
Many people hear a pop or feel a "popping" sensation in the knee when an ACL injury occurs. Your knee may swell, feel unstable and become too painful to bear weight.
Depending on the severity of your ACL injury, treatment may include rest and rehabilitation exercises to help you regain strength and stability, or surgery to replace the torn ligament followed by rehabilitation. A proper training program may help reduce the risk of an ACL injury.
There are no home remedies available for ACL injury in the knowledge baseSymptoms for ACL injury :
Signs and symptoms of an ACL injury usually include:
A loud pop or a "popping" sensation in the knee
Severe pain and inability to continue activity
Rapid swelling
Loss of range of motion
A feeling of instability or "giving way" with weight bearing
Causes for ACL injury :
Ligaments are strong bands of tissue that connect one bone to another. The ACL, one of two ligaments that cross in the middle of the knee, connects your thighbone to your shinbone and helps stabilize your knee joint.
ACL injuries often happen during sports and fitness activities that can put stress on the knee:
Suddenly slowing down and changing direction (cutting)
Pivoting with your foot firmly planted
Landing awkwardly from a jump
Stopping suddenly
Receiving a direct blow to the knee or having a collision, such as a football tackle
When the ligament is damaged, there is usually a partial or complete tear of the tissue. A mild injury may stretch the ligament but leave it intact.
Risk Factors for ACL injury:
There are a number of factors that increase your risk of an ACL injury, including:
Being female — possibly due to differences in anatomy, muscle strength and hormonal influences
Participating in certain sports, such as soccer, football, basketball, gymnastics and downhill skiing
Poor conditioning
Using faulty movement patterns, such as moving the knees inward during a squat
Wearing footwear that doesn't fit properly
Using poorly maintained sports equipment, such as ski bindings that aren't adjusted properly
Playing on artificial turf
Complications for ACL injury:
People who experience an ACL injury have a higher risk of developing osteoarthritis in the knee. Arthritis may occur even if you have surgery to reconstruct the ligament.
Multiple factors likely influence the risk of arthritis, such as the severity of the original injury, the presence of related injuries in the knee joint or the level of activity after treatment.
Preventions for ACL injury
Proper training and exercise can help reduce the risk of ACL injury. A sports medicine physician, physical therapist, athletic trainer or other specialist in sports medicine can provide assessment, instruction and feedback that can help you reduce risks.
Programs to reduce ACL injury include:
Exercises to strengthen the core — including the hips, pelvis and lower abdomen — with a goal of training athletes to avoid moving the knee inward during a squat
Exercises that strengthen leg muscles, particularly hamstring exercises, to ensure an overall balance in leg muscle strength
Training and exercise emphasizing proper technique and knee position when jumping and landing from jumps
Training to improve technique when performing pivoting and cutting movements
Training to strengthen muscles of the legs, hips and core — as well as training to improve jumping and landing techniques and to prevent inward movement of the knee — may help to reduce the higher ACL injury risk in female athletes.
Condition name:Acne
Overview of Acne:
Acne is a skin condition that occurs when your hair follicles become plugged with oil and dead skin cells. It causes whiteheads, blackheads or pimples. Acne is most common among teenagers, though it affects people of all ages.
Effective acne treatments are available, but acne can be persistent. The pimples and bumps heal slowly, and when one begins to go away, others seem to crop up.
Depending on its severity, acne can cause emotional distress and scar the skin. The earlier you start treatment, the lower your risk of such problems.
Home Remedies for Acne:
You can try to avoid or control mild or moderate acne with nonprescription products, good basic skin care and other self-care techniques:
Wash problem areas with a gentle cleanser. Twice a day, use your hands to wash your face with mild soap or a gentle cleanser (Cetaphil, Vanicream, others) and warm water. And be gentle if you're shaving affected skin.
Avoid certain products, such as facial scrubs, astringents and masks. They tend to irritate the skin, which can worsen acne. Too much washing and scrubbing also can irritate the skin.
Try over-the-counter acne products to dry excess oil and promote peeling. Look for products containing benzoyl peroxide and adapalene as the active ingredients. You might also try products containing salicylic acid, glycolic acid or alpha hydroxy acids. It may take a few weeks of using a product before you see any improvement.
Creams are less irritating than gels or ointments. Nonprescription acne medications may cause initial side effects â€” such as redness, dryness and scaling â€” that often improve after the first month of using them.
Avoid irritants. Oily or greasy cosmetics, sunscreens, hairstyling products or acne concealers can worsen acne. Instead, use products labeled water-based or noncomedogenic, which means they are less likely to cause acne.
Protect your skin from the sun. For some people, the sun worsens the discoloration that sometimes lingers after the acne has cleared. And some acne medications make you more susceptible to sunburn. Check with your doctor to see if your medication is one of these. If it is, stay out of the sun as much as possible. Regularly use a nonoily (noncomedogenic) moisturizer that includes a sunscreen.
Avoid friction or pressure on your skin. Protect your acne-prone skin from contact with items such as phones, helmets, tight collars or straps, and backpacks.
Avoid touching or picking acne-prone areas. Doing so can trigger more acne or lead to infection or scarring.
Shower after strenuous activities. Oil and sweat on your skin can lead to breakouts.
More Information
Nonprescription acne treatment: Which products work best?
Symptoms for Acne :
Acne signs vary depending on the severity of your condition:
Whiteheads (closed plugged pores)
Blackheads (open plugged pores)
Small red, tender bumps (papules)
Pimples (pustules), which are papules with pus at their tips
Large, solid, painful lumps under the skin (nodules)
Painful, pus-filled lumps under the skin (cystic lesions)
Acne usually appears on the face, forehead, chest, upper back and shoulders.
Causes for Acne :
Four main factors cause acne:
Excess oil (sebum) production
Hair follicles clogged by oil and dead skin cells
Bacteria
Inflammation
Acne typically appears on your face, forehead, chest, upper back and shoulders because these areas of skin have the most oil (sebaceous) glands. Hair follicles are connected to oil glands.
The follicle wall may bulge and produce a whitehead. Or the plug may be open to the surface and darken, causing a blackhead. A blackhead may look like dirt stuck in pores. But actually the pore is congested with bacteria and oil, which turns brown when it's exposed to the air.
Pimples are raised red spots with a white center that develop when blocked hair follicles become inflamed or infected with bacteria. Blockages and inflammation deep inside hair follicles produce cystlike lumps beneath the surface of your skin. Other pores in your skin, which are the openings of the sweat glands, aren't usually involved in acne.
Certain things may trigger or worsen acne:
Hormonal changes. Androgens are hormones that increase in boys and girls during puberty and cause the sebaceous glands to enlarge and make more sebum. Hormone changes during midlife, particularly in women, can lead to breakouts too.
Certain medications. Examples include drugs containing corticosteroids, testosterone or lithium.
Diet. Studies indicate that consuming certain foods — including carbohydrate-rich foods, such as bread, bagels and chips — may worsen acne. Further study is needed to examine whether people with acne would benefit from following specific dietary restrictions.
Stress. Stress doesn't cause acne, but if you have acne already, stress may make it worse.
Risk Factors for Acne:
Risk factors for acne include:
Age. People of all ages can get acne, but it's most common in teenagers.
Hormonal changes. Such changes are common during puberty or pregnancy.
Family history. Genetics plays a role in acne. If both of your parents had acne, you're likely to develop it too.
Greasy or oily substances. You may develop acne where your skin comes into contact with oil or oily lotions and creams.
Friction or pressure on your skin. This can be caused by items such as telephones, cellphones, helmets, tight collars and backpacks.
Complications for Acne:
People with darker skin types are more likely than are people with lighter skin to experience these acne complications:
Scars. Pitted skin (acne scars) and thick scars (keloids) can remain long-term after acne has healed.
Skin changes. After acne has cleared, the affected skin may be darker (hyperpigmented) or lighter (hypopigmented) than before the condition occurred.
There are no preventive measures available for Acne in the knowledge baseCondition name:Acute coronary syndrome
Overview of Acute coronary syndrome:
Acute coronary syndrome is a term that describes a range of conditions related to sudden, reduced blood flow to the heart. These conditions include a heart attack and unstable angina.
A heart attack happens when cell death damages or destroys heart tissue. A heart attack also is known as a myocardial infarction.
Unstable angina occurs when blood flow to the heart decreases. It's not severe enough to cause cell death or a heart attack. But the reduced blood flow may increase your risk of a heart attack.
Acute coronary syndrome often causes severe chest pain or discomfort. It is a medical emergency that needs a diagnosis and care right away. The goals of treatment include improving blood flow, treating complications and preventing future problems.
Home Remedies for Acute coronary syndrome:
Heart-healthy lifestyle changes are an important part of preventing a heart attack. Lifestyle changes include the following:
Don't smoke. If you smoke, quit. Talk to your health care team if you need help quitting. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit low-fat dairy products and lean meats.
Be active. Regular exercise helps improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity five or more days a week. If you have not been exercising, talk to your health care team about the best way to begin a healthy and safe exercise routine.
Check your cholesterol. Have your blood cholesterol levels checked regularly at a medical office. Avoid high-fat, high-cholesterol meat and dairy. Take a statin or other cholesterol-lowering medicine daily as directed by your health care provider.
Control your blood pressure. Have your blood pressure checked regularly by your health care provider. Take blood pressure medicine daily as recommended.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much weight strains the heart. It also can lead to high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease and other conditions. Talk with your care team to set realistic goals for weight.
Manage stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress. Talk to your health care team or a mental health care professional if you need help managing stress.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your health care team about strategies that might help.
Symptoms for Acute coronary syndrome :
The symptoms of acute coronary syndrome usually begin suddenly. They include:
Chest pain or discomfort. This is often described as aching, pressure, tightness or burning. Chest pain also is called angina.
Pain that starts in the chest and spreads to other parts of the body. These areas include the shoulders, arms, upper belly area, back, neck or jaw.
Nausea or vomiting.
Indigestion.
Shortness of breath, also called dyspnea.
Sudden, heavy sweating.
Racing heartbeat.
Feeling lightheaded or dizzy.
Fainting.
Unusual fatigue.
Chest pain or discomfort is the most common symptom. But symptoms may vary quite a bit depending on your age, sex and other medical conditions. You're more likely to have symptoms without chest pain or discomfort if you're a woman, an older adult or have diabetes.
Causes for Acute coronary syndrome :
Acute coronary syndrome usually results from the buildup of fatty deposits on the walls of blood vessels that deliver blood, oxygen and nutrients to heart muscles. Fatty deposits also are called plaque. The blood vessels that supply the heart also are known as coronary arteries.
When a fatty deposit ruptures or splits, a blood clot forms. This clot blocks the flow of blood to heart muscles.
When the supply of oxygen to cells is too low, cells in the heart muscles can die. The death of cells results in damage to muscle tissues. This is called a heart attack.
Even when there is no cell death, the drop in oxygen still results in heart muscles that don't work the way they should. This change may be short-lived or permanent. When acute coronary syndrome doesn't result in cell death, it is called unstable angina.
Risk Factors for Acute coronary syndrome:
The risk factors for acute coronary syndrome are the same as those for other types of heart disease. Risk factors include:
Getting older.
High blood pressure.
High blood cholesterol.
Smoking tobacco.
Lack of physical activity.
Eating an unhealthy diet.
Obesity or overweight.
Diabetes.
Personal or family history of chest pain, heart attacks or stroke.
History of high blood pressure, preeclampsia or diabetes during pregnancy, and early menopause.
COVID-19 infection.
There are no Complications available for Acute coronary syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Acute coronary syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Acute kidney injury
Overview of Acute kidney injury:
Acute kidney injury happens when the kidneys suddenly can't filter waste products from the blood. When the kidneys can't filter wastes, harmful levels of wastes may build up. The blood's chemical makeup may get out of balance.
Acute kidney injury used to be called acute kidney failure. Acute kidney injury is most common in people who are in the hospital, mostly in people who need intensive care.
Acute kidney injury ranges from mild to severe. If severe, ongoing and not treated, it can be fatal. But it also can be reversed. People in otherwise good health may get back typical or nearly typical use of their kidneys.
Home Remedies for Acute kidney injury:
During your recovery from acute kidney injury, a special diet can help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Your healthcare team may send you to a dietitian. A dietitian can look at what you eat and suggest ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Your dietitian may suggest that you:
Choose foods lower in potassium. These include apples, peaches, carrots, green beans and white bread and white rice. Eat them instead of foods higher in potassium. These include potatoes, bananas, tomatoes, oranges, beans and nuts.
Don't eat foods with added salt. This includes many packaged foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Limit phosphorus. Phosphorus is a mineral found in foods, such as dark-colored sodas, milk, oatmeal and bran cereals. Too much phosphorus in your blood can weaken your bones and cause your skin to itch.
As your kidneys get better, you may no longer need a special diet. But healthy eating still is important.
Symptoms for Acute kidney injury :
Symptoms of acute kidney injury may include:
Less urine output.
Fluid buildup, which can cause shortness of breath and swelling in the legs, ankles or feet.
Tiredness.
Confusion or fogginess.
Nausea.
Pain in the belly or in the side below the rib cage.
Weakness.
Irregular heartbeat.
Itching.
Loss of appetite.
Chest pain or pressure.
Seizures or coma in severe cases.
Sometimes acute kidney injury causes no symptoms. Then it may be found through lab tests done for something else.
Causes for Acute kidney injury :
Acute kidney injury can happen when:
You have a condition that slows blood flow to your kidneys.
You have damage to your kidneys.
Your kidneys' urine drainage tubes, called ureters, get blocked.
Risk Factors for Acute kidney injury:
Acute kidney injury almost always is linked to another medical condition or event. Conditions that can increase your risk of acute kidney injury include:
Ongoing kidney disease, also called chronic kidney disease.
Older age, but it does happen to children.
Being in the hospital, most often for a serious condition that needs intensive care.
Blockages in the blood vessels in your arms or legs, called peripheral artery disease.
Diabetes, especially if it's not controlled.
High blood pressure.
Heart failure.
Liver diseases.
Certain cancers and their treatments.
Complications for Acute kidney injury:
Complications of acute kidney injury may include:
Fluid buildup. A buildup of fluid in your lungs can cause shortness of breath.
Chest pain. The lining that covers your heart, called the pericardium, can get inflamed. This can cause chest pain.
Muscle weakness. This can result from the body's fluids and minerals in the blood called electrolytes being out of balance.
Permanent kidney damage. Sometimes, acute kidney injury causes lifelong loss of the use of the kidneys, called end-stage renal disease. People with end-stage renal disease need either lifelong treatments to remove waste from the body, called dialysis, or a kidney transplant to survive.
Death. Acute kidney injury can cause the kidneys to stop working.
Preventions for Acute kidney injury
You might cut your risk of acute kidney injury by taking care of your kidneys. Try to:
Get treated quickly for bad infections.
Work with your healthcare team to manage kidney and other ongoing conditions. Kidney disease, diabetes or high blood pressure increases your risk of acute kidney injury. If you have one of these, do what your healthcare team tells you to manage your condition.
If you have risk factors for kidney disease, check with your healthcare team to be sure that prescription medicines you take are safe for your kidneys.
Read labels when taking pain medicines available without a prescription. Do what the label says when taking medicines such as aspirin, acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve). Taking too much of these medicines may increase your risk of kidney injury. This is especially true if you already have kidney disease, diabetes or high blood pressure.
Live a healthy lifestyle. Be active and eat a healthy, balanced diet. If you drink alcohol, drink only in moderation.
Condition name:Acute liver failure
Overview of Acute liver failure:
Acute liver failure is loss of liver function that happens quickly — in days or weeks — usually in a person who has no preexisting liver disease. It's most often caused by a hepatitis virus or drugs, such as acetaminophen. Acute liver failure is less common than chronic liver failure, which develops more slowly.
Acute liver failure, also known as fulminant hepatic failure, can cause serious complications, including bleeding and increased pressure in the brain. It's a medical emergency that requires hospitalization.
Depending on the cause, acute liver failure can sometimes be reversed with treatment. In many situations, though, a liver transplant may be the only cure.
There are no home remedies available for Acute liver failure in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Acute liver failure :
Symptoms of acute liver failure may include:
Yellowing of the skin and eyeballs, called jaundice.
Pain in the upper right belly area, called the abdomen.
A swollen belly, known as ascites.
Nausea and vomiting.
A general sense of feeling unwell, known as malaise.
Disorientation or confusion.
Sleepiness.
Breath with a musty or sweet odor.
Tremors.
Causes for Acute liver failure :
Acute liver failure occurs when liver cells are seriously damaged and are no longer able to function. Possible causes include:
Acetaminophen overdose. Taking too much acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) is the most common cause of acute liver failure in the United States. Outside of the United States, acetaminophen is known as paracetamol. Acute liver failure can happen after one very large dose of acetaminophen, or after higher than recommended doses every day for several days.
If you or someone you know has taken an overdose of acetaminophen, seek medical attention as quickly as possible. Treatment may prevent liver failure. Don't wait for the symptoms of liver failure.
Hepatitis and other viruses. Hepatitis A, hepatitis B and hepatitis E increase the risk of acute liver failure. Other viruses that can increase risk include Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus and herpes simplex virus.
Prescription medicines. Some prescription medicines, including antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and anticonvulsants, can cause acute liver failure.
Herbal supplements. Herbal drugs and supplements, including kava, ephedra, skullcap and pennyroyal, have been linked to acute liver failure.
Toxins. Toxins that can cause acute liver failure include the poisonous wild mushroom Amanita phalloides, which is sometimes mistaken for one that is safe to eat. Carbon tetrachloride is another toxin that can cause acute liver failure. It is an industrial chemical found in refrigerants and solvents for waxes, varnishes and other materials.
Autoimmune disease. Liver failure can be caused by autoimmune hepatitis — a disease in which the immune system attacks liver cells, causing inflammation and injury.
Diseases of the veins in the liver. Vascular diseases, such as Budd-Chiari syndrome, can cause blockages in the veins of the liver and lead to acute liver failure.
Metabolic disease. Rare metabolic diseases, such as Wilson's disease and acute fatty liver of pregnancy, sometimes cause acute liver failure.
Cancer. Cancer that either begins in or spreads to the liver can cause the liver to fail.
Shock. Overwhelming infection, called sepsis, and shock can severely reduce blood flow to the liver, causing liver failure.
Heat stroke. Extreme physical activity in a hot environment can trigger acute liver failure.
Some cases of acute liver failure have no obvious cause.
Risk Factors for Acute liver failure:
Risk factors for acute liver failure include:
Being female. A majority of people affected by acute liver failure are female.
Underlying illness. Many conditions, including viral hepatitis, metabolic disease, autoimmune disease and cancer can increase the risk of acute liver failure.
Complications for Acute liver failure:
Acute liver failure often causes complications, including:
Too much fluid in the brain, called cerebral edema. Too much fluid causes pressure to build up in the brain, which can lead to disorientation, severe mental confusion and seizures.
Bleeding and bleeding disorders. A failing liver cannot make enough clotting factors, which help blood to clot. Bleeding in the gastrointestinal tract is common with this condition. It may be difficult to control.
Infections. People with acute liver failure are more likely to develop infections, particularly in the blood and in the respiratory and urinary tracts.
Kidney failure. Kidney failure often occurs after liver failure, especially with an acetaminophen overdose, which damages both the liver and the kidneys.
Preventions for Acute liver failure
Reduce your risk of acute liver failure by taking care of your liver.
Follow instructions on medicines. If you take acetaminophen or other medicines, check the package insert for the recommended dose, and don't take more than that. If you already have liver disease, ask your healthcare team if it is safe to take any amount of acetaminophen.
Tell your healthcare team about all your medicines. Even nonprescription and herbal medicines can interact with prescription drugs you're taking.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Avoid risky behavior. Get help if you use illicit intravenous drugs. Don't share needles. Use condoms during sex. If you get tattoos or body piercings, make sure the shop you choose is clean and safe. Don't smoke.
Get vaccinated. If you have chronic liver disease, a history of any type of hepatitis infection or an increased risk of hepatitis, talk to your care team about getting the hepatitis B vaccine. A vaccine also is available for hepatitis A.
Be careful not to come into contact with other people's blood and body fluids. Accidental needle sticks or improper cleanup of blood or body fluids can spread hepatitis viruses. Sharing razor blades or toothbrushes also can spread infection.
Don't eat wild mushrooms. It can be difficult to tell the difference between a poisonous mushroom and one that is safe to eat.
Take care with aerosol sprays. When you use an aerosol cleaner, make sure the room is ventilated, or wear a mask. Take similar protective measures when spraying insecticides, fungicides, paint and other toxic chemicals. Follow product instructions carefully.
Watch what gets on your skin. When using insecticides and other toxic chemicals, cover your skin with gloves, long sleeves, a hat and a mask.
Maintain a healthy weight. Obesity can cause a condition called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), now called metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). MASLD may lead to serious liver damage.
Condition name:Acute lymphocytic leukemia
Overview of Acute lymphocytic leukemia:
Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is a type of cancer of the blood and bone marrow — the spongy tissue inside bones where blood cells are made.
The word "acute" in acute lymphocytic leukemia comes from the fact that the disease progresses rapidly and creates immature blood cells, rather than mature ones. The word "lymphocytic" in acute lymphocytic leukemia refers to the white blood cells called lymphocytes, which ALL affects. Acute lymphocytic leukemia is also known as acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Acute lymphocytic leukemia is the most common type of cancer in children, and treatments result in a good chance for a cure. Acute lymphocytic leukemia can also occur in adults, though the chance of a cure is greatly reduced.
There are no home remedies available for Acute lymphocytic leukemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Acute lymphocytic leukemia :
Signs and symptoms of acute lymphocytic leukemia may include:
Bleeding from the gums
Bone pain
Fever
Frequent infections
Frequent or severe nosebleeds
Lumps caused by swollen lymph nodes in and around the neck, armpits, abdomen or groin
Pale skin
Shortness of breath
Weakness, fatigue or a general decrease in energy
Causes for Acute lymphocytic leukemia :
Acute lymphocytic leukemia occurs when a bone marrow cell develops changes (mutations) in its genetic material or DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. Normally, the DNA tells the cell to grow at a set rate and to die at a set time. In acute lymphocytic leukemia, the mutations tell the bone marrow cell to continue growing and dividing.
When this happens, blood cell production becomes out of control. The bone marrow produces immature cells that develop into leukemic white blood cells called lymphoblasts. These abnormal cells are unable to function properly, and they can build up and crowd out healthy cells.
It's not clear what causes the DNA mutations that can lead to acute lymphocytic leukemia.
Risk Factors for Acute lymphocytic leukemia:
Factors that may increase the risk of acute lymphocytic leukemia include:
Previous cancer treatment. Children and adults who've had certain types of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for other kinds of cancer may have an increased risk of developing acute lymphocytic leukemia.
Exposure to radiation. People exposed to very high levels of radiation, such as survivors of a nuclear reactor accident, have an increased risk of developing acute lymphocytic leukemia.
Genetic disorders. Certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, are associated with an increased risk of acute lymphocytic leukemia.
There are no Complications available for Acute lymphocytic leukemia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Acute lymphocytic leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Acute myelogenous leukemia
Overview of Acute myelogenous leukemia:
Acute myelogenous leukemia, also called AML, is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. Bone marrow is the soft matter inside bones where blood cells are made.
The word "acute" in acute myelogenous leukemia means the disease tends to get worse quickly. It's called myelogenous (my-uh-LOHJ-uh-nus) leukemia because it affects cells called the myeloid cells. These typically develop into mature blood cells, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets.
AML is the most common type of acute leukemia in adults. The other type is acute lymphoblastic leukemia, also called ALL. Although AML can be diagnosed at any age, it is less common before age 45. AML also is called acute myeloid leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, acute granulocytic leukemia and acute nonlymphocytic leukemia.
Unlike other cancers, there are no numbered stages of acute myelogenous leukemia.
There are no home remedies available for Acute myelogenous leukemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Acute myelogenous leukemia :
Symptoms of acute myelogenous leukemia may include:
Fever.
Pain. Common places for pain include the bones, back and stomach.
Feeling very tired.
Paleness or change in skin color.
Frequent infections.
Easy bruising.
Bleeding with no clear cause, such as in the nose or gums.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Acute myelogenous leukemia :
It's often not clear what causes acute myelogenous leukemia.
Healthcare professionals know that it starts when something causes changes to the DNA inside cells in the bone marrow. The bone marrow is the spongy material inside bones. It's where blood cells are made.
The changes that lead to acute myelogenous leukemia are thought to happen in cells called myeloid cells. Myeloid cells are bone marrow cells that can turn into the blood cells that circulate through the body. Healthy myeloid cells can become:
Red blood cells, which carry oxygen to the body.
Platelets, which help stop bleeding.
White blood cells, which help fight infections.
Every cell in the body contains DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. But when the DNA changes happen in the myeloid cells, the changes give different instructions. The myeloid cells start to make a lot of extra cells, and they don't stop.
The DNA changes cause the myeloid cells to make a lot of immature white blood cells, called myeloblasts. The myeloblasts don't work right. They can build up in the bone marrow. They can crowd out healthy blood cells. Without enough healthy blood cells, there might be low oxygen levels in the blood, easy bruising and bleeding, and frequent infections.
Risk Factors for Acute myelogenous leukemia:
Factors that may increase the risk of acute myelogenous leukemia, also called AML, include:
Older age. Acute myelogenous leukemia is most common in adults age 65 and older.
Prior cancer treatment. People who've had certain types of chemotherapy and radiation therapy may have a greater risk of AML.
Radiation exposure. People exposed to very high levels of radiation, such as a nuclear reactor accident, have an increased risk of developing AML.
Dangerous chemical exposure. Certain chemicals, such as benzene, are linked to a greater risk of AML.
Smoking cigarettes. AML is linked to cigarette smoke, which contains benzene and other known cancer-causing chemicals.
Other blood disorders. People who've had another blood disorder, such as myelodysplasia, myelofibrosis, polycythemia vera or thrombocythemia, are at greater risk of AML.
Genetic disorders. Certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, are associated with an increased risk of AML.
Family history. People with a close blood relative, such as a sibling, parent or grandparent with a blood or bone marrow disorder are at higher risk for AML.
Many people with AML have no known risk factors, and many people who have risk factors never develop the cancer.
There are no Complications available for Acute myelogenous leukemia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Acute myelogenous leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Acute sinusitis
Overview of Acute sinusitis:
Acute sinusitis causes the spaces inside the nose, known as sinuses, to become inflamed and swollen. Acute sinusitis makes it hard for the sinuses to drain. Mucus builds up.
Acute sinusitis can make it hard to breathe through the nose. The area around the eyes and the face might feel swollen. There might be throbbing face pain or a headache.
The common cold is the usual cause of acute sinusitis. Most often, the condition clears up within a week to 10 days unless there's also an infection caused by bacteria, called a bacterial infection. Home remedies might be all that's needed to treat acute sinusitis. Sinusitis that lasts more than 12 weeks even with medical treatment is called chronic sinusitis.
Home Remedies for Acute sinusitis:
Neti pot
Enlarge image
These steps can help relieve sinusitis symptoms:
Rest. Rest helps the body fight infection and speed recovery.
Drink fluids. Keep drinking plenty of fluids.
Use a warm compress. A warm compress on the nose and forehead might help lessen pressure in the sinuses.
Keep sinuses moist. Breathing in the steam from a bowl of hot water with a towel over the head might help. Or take a hot shower, breathing in the warm, moist air. This will help ease pain and help mucus drain.
Rinse the inside of the nose. Use a specially designed squeeze bottle (Sinus Rinse, others) or neti pot. This home remedy, called nasal lavage, can help clear sinuses.
Symptoms for Acute sinusitis :
Acute sinusitis symptoms often include:
Thick, yellow or greenish mucus from the nose, known as a runny nose, or down the back of the throat, known as postnasal drip.
Blocked or stuffy nose, known as congestion. This makes it hard to breathe through the nose.
Pain, tenderness, swelling and pressure around the eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead that gets worse when bending over.
Other signs and symptoms include:
Ear pressure.
Headache.
Aching in the teeth.
Changed sense of smell.
Cough.
Bad breath.
Tiredness.
Fever.
Causes for Acute sinusitis :
Acute sinusitis is an infection caused by a virus. The common cold is most often the cause. Sometimes, sinuses that are blocked for a time might get a bacterial infection.
Risk Factors for Acute sinusitis:
The following can raise the risk of getting sinusitis:
Hay fever or another allergy that affects the sinuses.
A common cold that affects the sinuses.
A problem inside the nose, such as a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps or tumors.
A medical condition such as cystic fibrosis or an immune system disorder such as HIV/AIDS.
Being around smoke, either from smoking or being around others who smoke, known as secondhand smoke.
Complications for Acute sinusitis:
Acute sinusitis doesn't often cause complications. Complications that might happen include:
Chronic sinusitis. Acute sinusitis can be a flare-up of a long-term problem known as chronic sinusitis. Chronic sinusitis lasts longer than 12 weeks.
Meningitis. This infection affects the membranes and fluid around the brain and spinal cord.
Other infections. It's not common. But an infection can spread to the bones, known as osteomyelitis, or to skin, known as cellulitis.
Vision problems. If the infection spreads to the eye socket, it can reduce vision or cause blindness.
Preventions for Acute sinusitis
Take these steps to help lower your risk of getting acute sinusitis:
Stay well. Try to stay away from people who have colds or other infections. Wash your hands often with soap and water, such as before meals.
Manage allergies. Work with your health care provider to keep symptoms under control.
Avoid cigarette smoke and polluted air. Tobacco smoke and other pollutants can irritate lungs and inside the nose, known as nasal passages.
Use a machine that adds moisture to the air, known as a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, adding moisture to the air may help prevent sinusitis. Be sure the humidifier stays clean and free of mold with regular, complete cleaning.
Condition name:Addison's disease
Overview of Addison's disease:
Addison's disease, also called adrenal insufficiency, is an uncommon illness that occurs when the body doesn't make enough of certain hormones. In Addison's disease, the adrenal glands make too little cortisol and, often, too little of another hormone, aldosterone.
Addison's disease can affect anyone and can be life-threatening. Treatment involves taking hormones to replace those that are missing.
There are no home remedies available for Addison's disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Addison's disease :
Addison's disease symptoms usually happen slowly, often over months. The disease can move so slowly that people who have it may ignore the symptoms at first. Then a stress, such as illness or injury, makes symptoms worse.
Symptoms may include:
Extreme fatigue
Weight loss and loss of appetite
Areas of darkened skin
Low blood pressure, even fainting
Salt craving
Low blood sugar, also called hypoglycemia
Nausea, diarrhea or vomiting
Abdominal pain
Muscle and joint pain
Irritability
Depression
Body hair loss or sexual issues in some people
Causes for Addison's disease :
Addison's disease is caused by damage to the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands sit just above the kidneys. As part of the endocrine system, they make hormones that affect almost every organ and tissue in the body. Damage to these glands results in too little of the hormone cortisol and, often, the hormone aldosterone.
The adrenal glands are made up of two sections. The interior, called the medulla, makes adrenaline-like hormones. The outer layer, called the cortex, makes a group of hormones called corticosteroids. Corticosteroids include:
Glucocorticoids. These hormones, including cortisol, affect the body's ability to turn food into energy. They also play a role in the immune system's inflammatory response and help the body respond to stress.
Mineralocorticoids. These hormones, including aldosterone, balance the body's sodium and potassium to keep blood pressure in a healthy range.
Androgens. In all people, the adrenal glands make small amounts of these sex hormones. They cause male sexual development. And they affect muscle mass, sex drive, known as libido, and a sense of well-being in all people.
Risk Factors for Addison's disease:
Most people who get Addison's disease don't have any factors that put them at higher risk of developing the condition. But the following may raise the risk of developing Addison's disease:
A history of having a disease or surgery that affects the pituitary gland or the adrenal glands.
Certain genetic changes that affect the pituitary or adrenal glands. These include gene changes that cause the inherited disease congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
Other autoimmune endocrine conditions, such as hypothyroidism or type 1 diabetes.
A traumatic brain injury.
Complications for Addison's disease:
Addisonian crisis. If you have untreated Addison's disease, you may develop an addisonian crisis as a result of stress on the body, such as injury, infection or illness. Typically, the adrenal glands make two or three times the usual amount of cortisol in response to physical stress. With adrenal insufficiency, not being able to increase the amount of cortisol made as a result of stress can lead to an addisonian crisis.
An addisonian crisis is a life-threatening situation that results in low blood pressure, low blood levels of sugar and high blood levels of potassium. It requires immediate medical care.
Other autoimmune diseases. People with Addison's disease often have related autoimmune diseases.
Preventions for Addison's disease
Addison's disease can't be prevented, but there are ways to avoid an addisonian crisis:
Talk to your health care provider if you always feel tired or weak or are losing weight without trying. Ask about an adrenal shortage.
If you have been diagnosed with Addison's disease, ask your provider what to do when you're sick. You may need to learn how to increase your dose of corticosteroids.
If you become very sick, especially if you are vomiting and you can't take your medicine, go to an emergency room.
Some people with Addison's disease worry about serious side effects from hydrocortisone or prednisone. However, people with Addison's disease aren't as likely to get the side effects of high-dose glucocorticoids. That's because the dose prescribed replaces the amount that's missing.
If you take cortisone, be sure to follow up with your provider regularly to make sure your dose is not too high.
Condition name:Adjustment disorders
Overview of Adjustment disorders:
Adjustment disorders are excessive reactions to stress that involve negative thoughts, strong emotions and changes in behavior. The reaction to a stressful change or event is much more intense than would typically be expected. This can cause a lot of problems in getting along with others, as well as at work or school.
Work problems, going away to school, an illness or any number of life changes can cause stress. Most of the time, people get used to such changes within a few months. But if you have an adjustment disorder, you continue to have emotional or behavioral responses that can make you feel more anxious or depressed.
Treatment can help you regain your emotional well-being.
Home Remedies for Adjustment disorders:
Here are some steps you can take to care for your emotional well-being.
Tips to help make you more resilient
Resilience is the ability to adapt well to stress, hardships, a disturbing or harmful experience, or tragedy. It's the ability to bounce back after going through a very hard time. Building resilience may vary from person to person, but these strategies can help:
Stay connected with loved ones and friends who are positive and support you in healthy ways.
Do something that brings you joy and gives you a sense of accomplishment and purpose every day.
Live a healthy lifestyle that includes good sleep, a healthy diet and regular physical activity.
Practice mindfulness, such as through journaling, prayer or yoga.
Learn from past experiences about how you can make your coping skills better.
Be hopeful about the future and try to be positive.
Stay away from alcohol, drugs and other addictive substances.
Look for and develop your personal strengths.
Face your fears and accept challenges.
Work to achieve your goals.
Plan to handle problems when they occur rather than not face them.
Find support
It may help you to talk things over with loved ones and friends. You also can ask for support from a faith community or find a support group for your situation.
Talk to your child about stressful events
If your child is finding it hard to adjust, try gently urging your child to talk about what they're going through. Many parents assume that talking about a hard change, such as divorce, will make a child feel worse. But your child needs to be able to express feelings of grief and hear you tell them that you'll remain a constant source of love and support.
Symptoms for Adjustment disorders :
Symptoms depend on the type of adjustment disorder. These symptoms can vary from person to person. You experience more stress than would generally be expected in response to a trying event, and this stress causes a lot of problems in your life.
Adjustment disorders affect how you feel and think about yourself and the world. They also may affect your actions or behavior.
Some examples include:
Feeling sad, hopeless or not enjoying things you used to enjoy.
Crying often.
Worrying, or feeling anxious, nervous, jittery or stressed out.
Feeling irritable or like you can't handle anything and don't know where to start.
Having trouble sleeping.
Not eating enough.
Having difficulty concentrating.
Having difficulty with daily activities.
Withdrawing from family and friends who support you socially.
Not doing important things, such as going to work or paying bills.
Thinking about suicide or acting on those thoughts.
Symptoms of an adjustment disorder start within three months of a stressful event. These symptoms last no longer than six months after the end of the stressful event. But constant or lasting adjustment disorders can continue for more than six months. This is especially true if the stressful event is ongoing, such as being unemployed.
Causes for Adjustment disorders :
Adjustment disorders are caused by major changes or stressors in your life. Genetics, your life experiences and your temperament may make it more likely that an adjustment disorder happens.
Risk Factors for Adjustment disorders:
Stressful life events and experiences ― positive and negative ― may put you at risk of having an adjustment disorder. Examples include:
Major stress as a child, such as bullying or difficulties with school.
Divorce or marriage problems.
Relationship problems or trouble getting along with others.
Major changes in life, such as retirement, having a baby or moving away.
Bad experiences, such as losing a job, loss of a loved one or having money problems.
Problems in school or at work.
Life-threatening experiences, such as physical assault, combat or natural disaster.
Ongoing stressors, such as having a medical illness or living in a neighborhood that has a lot of crime.
More than one major change or bad experience happening at the same time.
Other mental health conditions, such as major depression, intense anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder.
Complications for Adjustment disorders:
If adjustment disorders do not resolve, they eventually can lead to more-serious mental health conditions such as anxiety, major depression, or misuse of drugs or alcohol.
Preventions for Adjustment disorders
There are no guaranteed ways to prevent adjustment disorders. But social support, healthy coping skills and learning to recover quickly from hard times may help you during times of high stress.
If you know that a stressful situation is coming up, such as a move or retirement, plan ahead. In advance, increase your healthy habits and ask your friends and family for support. Remind yourself that stressful situations pass in time and that you can get through them. Also, consider checking in with your health care team or mental health professional to review healthy ways to manage your stress.
Condition name:Adnexal tumors
Overview of Adnexal tumors:
Adnexal tumors are growths of cells that form on the organs and connective tissues around the uterus. Adnexal tumors most often aren't cancerous, but they can be cancerous.
Adnexal tumors occur in the:
Ovaries
Fallopian tubes
Connective tissue around the ovaries or fallopian tubes
Diagnosis of adnexal tumors involves a careful physical exam, imaging tests and, sometimes, surgery. Treatment for adnexal tumors depends on the specific location and types of cells involved.
There are no home remedies available for Adnexal tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Adnexal tumors :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Adnexal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Adnexal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Adnexal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Adnexal tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Adrenal cancer
Overview of Adrenal cancer:
Adrenal cancer is a rare cancer that begins in one or both of the small, triangular glands (adrenal glands) located on top of your kidneys. Adrenal glands produce hormones that give instructions to virtually every organ and tissue in your body.
Adrenal cancer, also called adrenocortical cancer, can occur at any age. But it's most likely to affect children younger than 5 and adults in their 40s and 50s.
When adrenal cancer is found early, there is a chance for cure. But if the cancer has spread to areas beyond the adrenal glands, cure becomes less likely. Treatment can be used to delay progression or recurrence.
Most growths that form in the adrenal glands are noncancerous (benign). Benign adrenal tumors, such as adenoma or pheochromocytoma, also can develop in the adrenal glands.
There are no home remedies available for Adrenal cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Adrenal cancer :
Signs and symptoms of adrenal cancer include:
Weight gain
Muscle weakness
Pink or purple stretch marks on the skin
Hormone changes in women that might cause excess facial hair, hair loss on the head and irregular periods
Hormone changes in men that might cause enlarged breast tissue and shrinking testicles
Nausea
Vomiting
Abdominal bloating
Back pain
Fever
Loss of appetite
Loss of weight without trying
Causes for Adrenal cancer :
It's not clear what causes adrenal cancer.
Adrenal cancer forms when something creates changes (mutations) in the DNA of an adrenal gland cell. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The mutations can tell the cell to multiply uncontrollably and to continue living when healthy cells would die. When this happens, the abnormal cells accumulate and form a tumor. The tumor cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
There are no Risk Factors available for Adrenal cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Adrenal cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Adrenal cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Adrenoleukodystrophy
Overview of Adrenoleukodystrophy:
Adrenoleukodystrophy (uh-dree-noh-loo-koh-DIS-truh-fee) is a type of hereditary (genetic) condition that damages the membrane (myelin sheath) that insulates nerve cells in your brain.
In adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD), your body can't break down very long-chain fatty acids (VLCFAs), causing saturated VLCFAs to build up in your brain, nervous system and adrenal gland.
The most common type of ALD is X-linked ALD, which is caused by a genetic defect on the X chromosome. X-linked ALD affects males more severely than females, who carry the disease.
Forms of X-linked ALD include:
Childhood-onset ALD. This form of X-linked ALD usually occurs between ages 4 and 10. The white matter of the brain is progressively damaged (leukodystrophy), and symptoms worsen over time. If not diagnosed early, childhood-onset ALD may lead to death within five to 10 years.
Addison's disease. Hormone-producing glands (adrenal glands) often fail to produce enough steroids (adrenal insufficiency) in people who have ALD, causing a form of X-linked ALD known as Addison's disease.
Adrenomyeloneuropathy. This adult-onset form of X-linked ALD is a less severe and slowly progressive form that causes symptoms such as a stiff gait and bladder and bowel dysfunction. Women who are carriers for ALD may develop a mild form of adrenomyeloneuropathy.
There are no home remedies available for Adrenoleukodystrophy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Adrenoleukodystrophy :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Adrenoleukodystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Adrenoleukodystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Adrenoleukodystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Adrenoleukodystrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Overview of Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD):
Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a mental health disorder that includes a combination of persistent problems, such as difficulty paying attention, hyperactivity and impulsive behavior. Adult ADHD can lead to unstable relationships, poor work or school performance, low self-esteem, and other problems.
Though it's called adult ADHD, symptoms start in early childhood and continue into adulthood. In some cases, ADHD is not recognized or diagnosed until the person is an adult. Adult ADHD symptoms may not be as clear as ADHD symptoms in children. In adults, hyperactivity may decrease, but struggles with impulsiveness, restlessness and difficulty paying attention may continue.
Treatment for adult ADHD is similar to treatment for childhood ADHD. Adult ADHD treatment includes medications, psychological counseling (psychotherapy) and treatment for any mental health conditions that occur along with ADHD.
Home Remedies for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD):
Because ADHD is a complex disorder and each person is unique, it's hard to make recommendations for all adults who have ADHD. But some of these suggestions may help:
Make a list of tasks to accomplish each day. Prioritize the items. Make sure you're not trying to do too much.
Break down tasks into smaller, more manageable steps. Consider using checklists.
Use sticky pads to write notes to yourself. Put them on the fridge, on the bathroom mirror, in the car or in other places where you'll see the reminders.
Keep an appointment book or electronic calendar to track appointments and deadlines.
Carry a notebook or electronic device with you so that you can note ideas or things you'll need to remember.
Take time to set up systems to file and organize information, both on your electronic devices and for paper documents. Get in the habit of using these systems consistently.
Follow a routine that's consistent from day to day and keep items, such as your keys and your wallet, in the same place.
Ask for help from family members or other loved ones.
Symptoms for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) :
Some people with ADHD have fewer symptoms as they age, but some adults continue to have major symptoms that interfere with daily functioning. In adults, the main features of ADHD may include difficulty paying attention, impulsiveness and restlessness. Symptoms can range from mild to severe.
Many adults with ADHD aren't aware they have it — they just know that everyday tasks can be a challenge. Adults with ADHD may find it difficult to focus and prioritize, leading to missed deadlines and forgotten meetings or social plans. The inability to control impulses can range from impatience waiting in line or driving in traffic to mood swings and outbursts of anger.
Adult ADHD symptoms may include:
Impulsiveness
Disorganization and problems prioritizing
Poor time management skills
Problems focusing on a task
Trouble multitasking
Excessive activity or restlessness
Poor planning
Low frustration tolerance
Frequent mood swings
Problems following through and completing tasks
Hot temper
Trouble coping with stress
Causes for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) :
While the exact cause of ADHD is not clear, research efforts continue. Factors that may be involved in the development of ADHD include:
Genetics. ADHD can run in families, and studies indicate that genes may play a role.
Environment. Certain environmental factors also may increase risk, such as lead exposure as a child.
Problems during development. Problems with the central nervous system at key moments in development may play a role.
Risk Factors for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD):
Risk of ADHD may increase if:
You have blood relatives, such as a parent or sibling, with ADHD or another mental health disorder
Your mother smoked, drank alcohol or used drugs during pregnancy
As a child, you were exposed to environmental toxins — such as lead, found mainly in paint and pipes in older buildings
You were born prematurely
Complications for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD):
ADHD can make life difficult for you. ADHD has been linked to:
Poor school or work performance
Unemployment
Financial problems
Trouble with the law
Alcohol or other substance misuse
Frequent car accidents or other accidents
Unstable relationships
Poor physical and mental health
Poor self-image
Suicide attempts
There are no preventive measures available for Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Adult Still disease
Overview of Adult Still disease:
Adult Still disease is a rare type of inflammatory arthritis. Common symptoms are fevers, rash and joint pain. The condition can occur in some people as a single episode that goes away. In other people, the condition doesn't go away, or it goes away but comes back.
Adult Still disease can damage joints, particularly the wrists. Treatment involves medicine to reduce pain and help control the disease. Prednisone is often used if pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) are not enough.
Home Remedies for Adult Still disease:
Here are ways to make the most of your health if you have adult Still disease:
Understand your medicines. Even if you have no symptoms some days, it's important to take your medicines as your care provider recommends. Controlling inflammation helps reduce the risk of complications.
Supplement your diet. If you're taking high doses of prednisone, talk to your care provider about taking more calcium and vitamin D supplements to help prevent osteoporosis.
Keep moving. Although you might not want to work out if your joints ache, exercise is recommended for all types of arthritis. Exercise can help you keep your range of motion and relieve pain and stiffness.
Symptoms for Adult Still disease :
Most people with adult Still disease have a combination of the following symptoms:
Fever. Fever may rise to at least 102 degrees Fahrenheit (38.9 degrees Celsius). The fever may spike once or twice a day for a week or longer.
Rash. A rash might come and go with the fever. The rash usually appears on the trunk, arms or legs.
Sore throat. This is one of the first symptoms of adult Still disease. The lymph nodes in the neck might be swollen and tender.
Achy and swollen joints. Joints — especially in the knees and wrists— might be stiff, painful and inflamed. Ankles, elbows, hands and shoulders also might ache. The joint discomfort usually lasts at least two weeks.
Muscle pain. Muscular pain usually comes and goes with the fever. The pain can be severe enough to disrupt daily activities.
Symptoms of this disorder can differ from person to person. They can mimic those of other conditions, including lupus and a type of cancer called lymphoma.
Causes for Adult Still disease :
The cause of adult Still disease is not known. Some researchers suspect it might be triggered by a viral or bacterial infection.
Risk Factors for Adult Still disease:
Age is the main risk factor for adult Still disease. It is most likely to occur in adults between the ages of 15 and 25 and between the ages of 36 and 46. Males and females are equally at risk.
Complications for Adult Still disease:
Adult Still disease inflames the organs and joints. Most complications from the disease result from this inflammation.
Joint destruction. The chronic swelling and irritation that occurs with adult Still disease can damage the joints. The most commonly involved joints are the knees and wrists. Sometimes other joints, including the neck, foot, finger and hip joints, also are affected.
Inflammation of the heart. Adult Still disease can inflame the saclike covering of the heart, called the pericardium. This results in inflammation of the pericardium, called pericarditis. The disease can also inflame the muscular part of the heart, called the myocardium. This results in inflammation of the myocardium, called myocarditis.
Excess fluid around the lungs. Inflammation may cause fluid to build up around the lungs. When this happens, it can be hard to take deep breaths.
Macrophage activation syndrome. This is a rare but serious complication of adult Still disease. It happens when the immune system goes into overdrive and potentially harms organs such as the heart, liver, spleen and kidneys.
There are no preventive measures available for Adult Still disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Agoraphobia
Overview of Agoraphobia:
Agoraphobia (ag-uh-ruh-FOE-be-uh) is a type of anxiety disorder. Agoraphobia involves fearing and avoiding places or situations that might cause panic and feelings of being trapped, helpless or embarrassed. You may fear an actual or upcoming situation. For example, you may fear using public transportation, being in open or enclosed spaces, standing in line, or being in a crowd.
The anxiety is caused by fear that there's no easy way to escape or get help if the anxiety gets overwhelming. You may avoid situations because of fears such as getting lost, falling, or having diarrhea and not being able to get to a bathroom. Most people who have agoraphobia develop it after having one or more panic attacks, causing them to worry about having another attack. They then avoid the places where it may happen again.
Agoraphobia often results in having a hard time feeling safe in any public place, especially where crowds gather and in locations that are not familiar. You may feel that you need a companion, such as a family member or friend, to go with you to public places. The fear can be so overwhelming that you may feel you can't leave your home.
Agoraphobia treatment can be challenging because it means confronting your fears. But with proper treatment — usually a form of therapy called cognitive behavioral therapy and medicines — you can escape the trap of agoraphobia and live a more enjoyable life.
There are no home remedies available for Agoraphobia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Agoraphobia :
Typical agoraphobia symptoms include fear of:
Leaving home alone.
Crowds or waiting in line.
Enclosed spaces, such as movie theaters, elevators or small stores.
Open spaces, such as parking lots, bridges or malls.
Using public transportation, such as a bus, plane or train.
These situations cause anxiety because you fear you won't be able to escape or find help if you start to feel panicked. Or you may fear having other disabling or embarrassing symptoms, such as dizziness, fainting, falling or diarrhea.
In addition:
Your fear or anxiety is out of proportion to the actual danger of the situation.
You avoid the situation, you need a companion to go with you, or you endure the situation but are extremely upset.
You have major distress or problems with social situations, work or other areas in your life because of the fear, anxiety or avoidance.
Your fear and avoidance usually lasts six months or longer.
Causes for Agoraphobia :
Biology — including health conditions and genetics — personality, stress and learning experiences may all play a role in the development of agoraphobia.
Risk Factors for Agoraphobia:
Agoraphobia can begin in childhood, but usually starts in the late teen or early adult years — usually before age 35. But older adults also can develop it. Females are diagnosed with agoraphobia more often than males are.
Risk factors for agoraphobia include:
Having panic disorder or other excessive fear reactions, called phobias.
Responding to panic attacks with too much fear and avoidance.
Experiencing stressful life events, such as abuse, the death of a parent or being attacked.
Having an anxious or nervous personality.
Having a blood relative with agoraphobia.
Complications for Agoraphobia:
Agoraphobia can greatly limit your life's activities. If your agoraphobia is severe, you may not even be able to leave your home. Without treatment, some people become housebound for years. If this happens to you, you may not be able to visit with family and friends, go to school or work, run errands, or take part in other routine daily activities. You may become dependent on others for help.
Agoraphobia also can lead to:
Depression.
Alcohol or drug misuse.
Suicidal thoughts and behavior.
Preventions for Agoraphobia
There's no sure way to prevent agoraphobia. But anxiety tends to increase the more you avoid situations that you fear. If you start to have mild fears about going places that are safe, try to practice going to those places over and over again. This can help you feel more comfortable in those places. If this is too hard to do on your own, ask a family member or friend to go with you, or seek professional help.
If you experience anxiety going places or have panic attacks, get treatment as soon as possible. Get help early to keep symptoms from getting worse. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Condition name:Albinism
Overview of Albinism:
The term albinism usually refers to oculocutaneous (ok-u-low-ku-TAY-nee-us) albinism (OCA). OCA is a group of disorders passed down in families where the body makes little or none of a substance called melanin. The type and amount of melanin in your body determines the color of your skin, hair and eyes. Melanin also plays a role in the development and function of the eyes, so people with albinism have vision problems.
Symptoms of albinism are usually seen in a person's skin, hair and eye color, but sometimes differences are slight. People with albinism are also sensitive to the effects of the sun, so they're at higher risk of getting skin cancer.
Although there's no cure for albinism, people with the disorder can take steps to protect their skin and eyes and get proper eye and skin care.
Home Remedies for Albinism:
You can help your child learn self-care practices that should continue into adulthood:
Use low vision aids, such as a hand-held magnifying glass, a telescope or a magnifier that attaches to glasses. Another aid is a tablet connected to a digital whiteboard in the classroom. This is an interactive electronic board with a touch screen.
Always use sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or greater that protects against both UVA and UVB light.
Strictly avoid high-risk or lengthy sun exposure. Examples include being outside for long periods of time or in the middle of the day, at high altitudes, on or near water, and on sunny days with thin cloud cover.
Wear protective clothing, including clothes with color. Examples include long-sleeve, collared shirts, long pants and socks; broad-brimmed hats; and special UV-protection clothing.
Protect eyes by wearing dark, UV-blocking sunglasses. Another option is transition lenses called photochromic lenses, which darken in bright light.
Symptoms for Albinism :
Symptoms of albinism involve skin, hair and eye color, as well as vision.
Causes for Albinism :
Several genes give instructions for making one of several proteins involved in producing melanin. Melanin is made by cells called melanocytes that are found in your skin, hair and eyes.
Albinism is caused by a change in one of these genes. Different types of albinism can occur, based mainly on which gene change caused the disorder. The gene change may result in no melanin at all or a big decrease in the amount of melanin.
Risk Factors for Albinism:
Risk factors depend on whether one or both parents carry an affected gene. Different types of albinism have different types of inheritance patterns.
Complications for Albinism:
Albinism can include skin and eye complications. It also can include social and emotional challenges.
Preventions for Albinism
If a family member has albinism, a genetic counselor can help you understand the type of albinism and the chances of having a future child with albinism. The counselor can explain the available genetic tests.
Condition name:Alcohol poisoning
Overview of Alcohol poisoning:
Alcohol poisoning is a serious — and sometimes deadly — result of drinking large amounts of alcohol in a short period of time. Drinking too much too quickly can affect breathing, heart rate, body temperature and gag reflex. In some cases, this can lead to a coma and death.
Alcohol poisoning also can occur when adults or children accidentally or intentionally drink household products that contain alcohol.
If you think that someone has alcohol poisoning, get medical attention right away.
Home Remedies for Alcohol poisoning:
Home remedies for alcohol poisoning won't work. Alcohol poisoning is an emergency situation.
Dangerous myths
You can't reverse the effects of alcohol poisoning, and you could make things worse through some actions. Here's what doesn't work:
Sleeping it off. A person can lose consciousness while asleep.
Black coffee or caffeine. Coffee and other caffeinated drinks do not stop or reduce the effects of alcohol poisoning.
A cold shower. The shock of cold can cause a person to pass out.
Walking it off. This does not make alcohol leave the body faster.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Alcohol poisoning :
Alcohol poisoning symptoms include:
Confusion.
Vomiting.
Seizures.
Slow breathing, which is fewer than eight breaths a minute.
Breathing that's not regular. This is when there is a gap of more than 10 seconds between breaths.
Skin that looks blue, gray or pale.
Low body temperature, also known as hypothermia.
Trouble staying conscious or awake.
Causes for Alcohol poisoning :
Alcohol in the form of ethanol, also called ethyl alcohol, is in alcoholic beverages. It's also in mouthwash, some cooking extracts, some medicines and certain household products. Ethyl alcohol poisoning generally results from drinking too many alcoholic beverages in a short period of time.
Other forms of alcohol can cause toxic poisoning that requires emergency treatment. They include:
Isopropyl alcohol, which is found in rubbing alcohol, lotions and some cleaning products.
Methanol or ethylene glycol, which is a common ingredient in antifreeze, paints and solvents.
Risk Factors for Alcohol poisoning:
Several factors can increase your risk of alcohol poisoning, including:
Your height and weight.
Health conditions that affect how your body processes alcohol.
Whether you've eaten recently.
Whether you've had alcohol along with other drugs, including medicines you take for health reasons.
The percentage of alcohol in your drinks.
How fast and how much alcohol you drink.
How your body processes alcohol.
Complications for Alcohol poisoning:
Severe complications can result from alcohol poisoning, including:
Choking. Alcohol may cause vomiting. Because it depresses the gag reflex, this increases the risk of choking on vomit if a person passes out.
Stopping breathing. Accidentally inhaling vomit into the lungs can lead to a dangerous or fatal interruption of breathing, also known as asphyxiation.
Severe loss of fluids. Vomiting can result in severe dehydration, which happens when the body doesn't have enough water and other fluids. This can lead to dangerously low blood pressure and a fast heart rate.
Seizures. The blood sugar level may drop low enough to cause seizures.
Hypothermia. The body temperature may drop so low that it leads to cardiac arrest.
Unusual heartbeat. Alcohol poisoning can cause a heartbeat that is not regular. It can even cause the heart to stop.
Brain damage. Heavy drinking may cause brain damage that can't be reversed.
Death. Any of the issues above can lead to death.
Preventions for Alcohol poisoning
To avoid alcohol poisoning:
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to two drinks a day for males and one drink a day for females. When you drink, enjoy your drink slowly.
Don't drink alcohol along with certain medicines. Some medicines can cause harmful effects when taken with even small amounts of alcohol. And certain health conditions may mean it takes less alcohol than expected to reach the level of alcohol poisoning. Ask your health care provider if these risks apply to you.
Don't drink on an empty stomach. Having some food in your stomach may slow the process of absorbing alcohol somewhat. But it won't prevent alcohol poisoning during binge drinking.
Communicate with your teens. Talk to your teenagers about the dangers of alcohol, including binge drinking. Evidence suggests that children who are warned about alcohol by their parents and who report close relationships with their parents are less likely to start drinking.
Store products safely. If you have small children, store alcohol-containing products, including cosmetics, mouthwashes and medicines, out of their reach. Use childproof bathroom and kitchen cabinets to prevent access to household cleaners. Keep toxic items in your garage or storage area safely out of reach. Consider keeping alcoholic beverages under lock and key.
Get follow-up care. Ask about follow-up care for alcohol poisoning. Meeting with a health care provider, particularly an experienced chemical dependency counselor, can help prevent future binge drinking.
Condition name:Alcohol use disorder
Overview of Alcohol use disorder:
Alcohol use disorder is a pattern of alcohol use that involves problems controlling your drinking, being preoccupied with alcohol or continuing to use alcohol even when it causes problems. This disorder also involves having to drink more to get the same effect or having withdrawal symptoms when you rapidly decrease or stop drinking. Alcohol use disorder includes a level of drinking that's sometimes called alcoholism.
Unhealthy alcohol use includes any alcohol use that puts your health or safety at risk or causes other alcohol-related problems. It also includes binge drinking — a pattern of drinking where a male has five or more drinks within two hours or a female has at least four drinks within two hours. Binge drinking causes significant health and safety risks.
If your pattern of drinking results in repeated significant distress and problems functioning in your daily life, you likely have alcohol use disorder. It can range from mild to severe. However, even a mild disorder can escalate and lead to serious problems, so early treatment is important.
Home Remedies for Alcohol use disorder:
As part of your recovery, you'll need to focus on changing your habits and making different lifestyle choices. These strategies may help:
Consider your social situation. Make it clear to your friends and family that you're not drinking alcohol. Develop a support system of friends and family who can support your recovery. You may need to distance yourself from friends and social situations that impair your recovery.
Develop healthy habits. For example, good sleep, regular physical activity, managing stress more effectively and eating well all can make it easier for you to recover from alcohol use disorder.
Do things that don't involve alcohol. You may find that many of your activities involve drinking. Replace them with hobbies or activities that are not centered around alcohol.
Symptoms for Alcohol use disorder :
Alcohol use disorder can be mild, moderate or severe, based on the number of symptoms you experience. Signs and symptoms may include:
Being unable to limit the amount of alcohol you drink
Wanting to cut down on how much you drink or making unsuccessful attempts to do so
Spending a lot of time drinking, getting alcohol or recovering from alcohol use
Feeling a strong craving or urge to drink alcohol
Failing to fulfill major obligations at work, school or home due to repeated alcohol use
Continuing to drink alcohol even though you know it's causing physical, social, work or relationship problems
Giving up or reducing social and work activities and hobbies to use alcohol
Using alcohol in situations where it's not safe, such as when driving or swimming
Developing a tolerance to alcohol so you need more to feel its effect or you have a reduced effect from the same amount
Experiencing withdrawal symptoms — such as nausea, sweating and shaking — when you don't drink, or drinking to avoid these symptoms
Alcohol use disorder can include periods of being drunk (alcohol intoxication) and symptoms of withdrawal.
Alcohol intoxication results as the amount of alcohol in your bloodstream increases. The higher the blood alcohol concentration is, the more likely you are to have bad effects. Alcohol intoxication causes behavior problems and mental changes. These may include inappropriate behavior, unstable moods, poor judgment, slurred speech, problems with attention or memory, and poor coordination. You can also have periods called "blackouts," where you don't remember events. Very high blood alcohol levels can lead to coma, permanent brain damage or even death.
Alcohol withdrawal can occur when alcohol use has been heavy and prolonged and is then stopped or greatly reduced. It can occur within several hours to 4 to 5 days later. Signs and symptoms include sweating, rapid heartbeat, hand tremors, problems sleeping, nausea and vomiting, hallucinations, restlessness and agitation, anxiety, and occasionally seizures. Symptoms can be severe enough to impair your ability to function at work or in social situations.
Causes for Alcohol use disorder :
Genetic, psychological, social and environmental factors can impact how drinking alcohol affects your body and behavior. Theories suggest that for certain people drinking has a different and stronger impact that can lead to alcohol use disorder.
Over time, drinking too much alcohol may change the normal function of the areas of your brain associated with the experience of pleasure, judgment and the ability to exercise control over your behavior. This may result in craving alcohol to try to restore good feelings or reduce negative ones.
Risk Factors for Alcohol use disorder:
Alcohol use may begin in the teens, but alcohol use disorder occurs more frequently in the 20s and 30s, though it can start at any age.
Risk factors for alcohol use disorder include:
Steady drinking over time. Drinking too much on a regular basis for an extended period or binge drinking on a regular basis can lead to alcohol-related problems or alcohol use disorder.
Starting at an early age. People who begin drinking — especially binge drinking — at an early age are at a higher risk of alcohol use disorder.
Family history. The risk of alcohol use disorder is higher for people who have a parent or other close relative who has problems with alcohol. This may be influenced by genetic factors.
Depression and other mental health problems. It's common for people with a mental health disorder such as anxiety, depression, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder to have problems with alcohol or other substances.
History of trauma. People with a history of emotional trauma or other trauma are at increased risk of alcohol use disorder.
Having bariatric surgery. Some research studies indicate that having bariatric surgery may increase the risk of developing alcohol use disorder or of relapsing after recovering from alcohol use disorder.
Social and cultural factors. Having friends or a close partner who drinks regularly could increase your risk of alcohol use disorder. The glamorous way that drinking is sometimes portrayed in the media also may send the message that it's OK to drink too much. For young people, the influence of parents, peers and other role models can impact risk.
Complications for Alcohol use disorder:
Alcohol depresses your central nervous system. In some people, the initial reaction may feel like an increase in energy. But as you continue to drink, you become drowsy and have less control over your actions.
Too much alcohol affects your speech, muscle coordination and vital centers of your brain. A heavy drinking binge may even cause a life-threatening coma or death. This is of particular concern when you're taking certain medications that also depress the brain's function.
Preventions for Alcohol use disorder
Early intervention can prevent alcohol-related problems in teens. If you have a teenager, be alert to signs and symptoms that may indicate a problem with alcohol:
Loss of interest in activities and hobbies and in personal appearance
Red eyes, slurred speech, problems with coordination and memory lapses
Difficulties or changes in relationships with friends, such as joining a new crowd
Declining grades and problems in school
Frequent mood changes and defensive behavior
You can help prevent teenage alcohol use:
Set a good example with your own alcohol use.
Talk openly with your child, spend quality time together and become actively involved in your child's life.
Let your child know what behavior you expect — and what the consequences will be for not following the rules.
Condition name:Alcoholic hepatitis
Overview of Alcoholic hepatitis:
Alcoholic hepatitis is swelling, called inflammation, of the liver caused by drinking alcohol. Drinking alcohol destroys liver cells.
Alcoholic hepatitis most often happens in people who drink heavily over many years. But the link between drinking and alcoholic hepatitis isn't simple. Not all heavy drinkers get alcoholic hepatitis. And some people who drink much less get the disease.
If you're diagnosed with alcoholic hepatitis, you must stop drinking alcohol. People who keep drinking alcohol have a high risk of serious liver damage and death.
There are no home remedies available for Alcoholic hepatitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Alcoholic hepatitis :
The most common sign of alcoholic hepatitis is yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice. The yellowing of the skin might be harder to see on Black and brown people.
Other symptoms include:
Loss of appetite.
Nausea and vomiting.
Belly tenderness.
Fever, often low grade.
Tiredness and weakness.
People with alcoholic hepatitis tend to be malnourished. Drinking large amounts of alcohol keeps people from being hungry. And heavy drinkers get most of their calories from alcohol.
Other symptoms that happen with severe alcoholic hepatitis include:
Fluid buildup in the belly, called ascites.
Being confused and acting oddly due to a buildup of toxins. The healthy liver breaks these toxins down and gets rid of them.
Kidney and liver failure.
Causes for Alcoholic hepatitis :
Alcoholic hepatitis is caused by damage to the liver from drinking alcohol. Just how alcohol damages the liver and why it does so only in some heavy drinkers isn't clear.
These factors are known to play a role in alcoholic hepatitis:
The body's way of breaking down alcohol makes highly toxic chemicals.
These chemicals trigger swelling, called inflammation, that destroys liver cells.
Over time, scars replace healthy liver tissue. This keeps the liver from working well.
This scarring, called cirrhosis, can't be fixed. It's the final stage of alcoholic liver disease.
Other factors that can be involved with alcoholic hepatitis include:
Other types of liver disease. Alcoholic hepatitis can make chronic liver diseases worse. For instance, if you have hepatitis C and drink, even a little, you're more likely to get liver scarring than if you don't drink.
Lack of nutrition. Many people who drink heavily don't get enough nutrients because they eat poorly. And alcohol keeps the body from using nutrients as it should. Lack of nutrients can damage liver cells.
Risk Factors for Alcoholic hepatitis:
The major risk factor for alcoholic hepatitis is the how much alcohol you drink. It isn't known how much alcohol it takes to cause alcoholic hepatitis.
Most people with this condition have had at least seven drinks a day for 20 years or more. This can mean 7 glasses of wine, 7 beers, or 7 shots of spirits.
However, alcoholic hepatitis can happen to people who drink less and have other risk factors, including:
Sex. Women seem to have a higher risk of getting alcoholic hepatitis. That might be because of how alcohol breaks down in women's bodies.
Obesity. Heavy drinkers who are overweight might be more likely to get alcoholic hepatitis. And they might be more likely to go on to get liver scarring.
Genes. Studies suggest that genes might be involved in alcohol-induced liver disease.
Race and ethnicity. Black and Hispanic people might be at higher risk of alcoholic hepatitis.
Binge drinking. Having five or more drinks in about two hours for men and four or more for women might increase the risk of alcoholic hepatitis.
Complications for Alcoholic hepatitis:
Complications of alcoholic hepatitis are caused by scar tissue on the liver. Scar tissue can slow blood flow through the liver. That can raise pressure in a major blood vessel called the portal vein and cause a buildup of toxins.
Complications include:
Enlarged veins, called varices. Blood that can't flow freely through the portal vein can back up into other blood vessels in the stomach and the tube through which food passes from the throat to the stomach, called the esophagus.
These blood vessels have thin walls. They're likely to bleed if filled with too much blood. Heavy bleeding in the upper stomach or esophagus is life-threatening and needs medical care right away.
Ascites (ah-SITE-ees). Fluid that builds up in the belly might get infected and need treatment with antibiotics. Ascites isn't life-threatening. But it most often means advanced alcoholic hepatitis or cirrhosis.
Confusion, drowsiness and slurred speech, called hepatic encephalopathy. A damaged liver has trouble removing toxins from the body. The buildup of toxins can damage the brain. Severe hepatic encephalopathy can cause a coma.
Kidney failure. A damaged liver can affect blood flow to the kidneys. This can damage the kidneys.
Cirrhosis. This scarring of the liver can lead to liver failure.
Preventions for Alcoholic hepatitis
You might reduce your risk of alcoholic hepatitis if you:
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. For healthy adults, moderate drinking means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men. The only certain way to prevent alcoholic hepatitis is to avoid all alcohol.
Protect yourself from hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is a liver disease caused by a virus. Without treatment, it can lead to cirrhosis. If you have hepatitis C and drink alcohol, you're far more likely to get cirrhosis than if you don't drink.
Check before mixing medicines and alcohol. Ask your healthcare professional if it's safe to drink alcohol when taking your prescribed medicines. Read the warning labels on medicines you can get without a prescription.
Don't drink alcohol when taking medicines that warn against drinking alcohol while taking them. This includes pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others).
Condition name:Allergies
Overview of Allergies:
Allergies happen when the immune system reacts to a foreign substance that gets inside the body. These substances are known as allergens. They include pollen, bee venom and pet dander. Allergies also can happen due to certain foods and medicines that don't cause reactions in most people.
The immune system makes protective proteins called antibodies that attack invaders such as germs. But with allergies, the immune system makes antibodies that mark a specific allergen as harmful, even though it isn't. Coming into contact with the allergen causes an immune system reaction that can inflame the skin, sinuses, airways or digestive system.
Allergic reactions vary from person to person. They can range from minor irritation to a life-threatening emergency called anaphylaxis. While most allergies can't be cured, treatments can help relieve your allergy symptoms.
Home Remedies for Allergies:
Some allergy symptoms get better with steps that you can take at home:
Sinus congestion and hay fever symptoms. These often get better with saline nasal sprays. These sprays rinse out the sinuses with a salt and water solution. You can use a neti pot or a specially designed squeeze bottle to flush out thickened mucus and irritants from your nose. But be aware that using a neti pot or other device wrong can lead to infection.
Household airborne allergy symptoms. Lessen your exposure to dust mites or pet dander by washing bedding and stuffed toys in hot water often. Also, keep the indoor humidity level low. And regularly using a vacuum with a fine filter such as a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter. Think about replace carpeting with hard flooring too.
Mold allergy symptoms. Reduce moisture in damp areas, such as your bath and kitchen, by using ventilation fans and dehumidifiers. Fix leaks inside and outside your home. You also can improve airflow by leaving doors between rooms open and moving furniture away from walls.
Symptoms for Allergies :
Allergy symptoms depend on what allergen is involved. The symptoms can affect the airways, sinuses and nasal passages, skin, and digestive system. Allergic reactions can range from mild to severe. Sometimes, allergies can trigger a life-threatening reaction known as anaphylaxis.
Hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis, can cause:
Sneezing.
Itching of the skin, nose, eyes or roof of the mouth.
Runny, stuffy nose.
Tiredness, also called fatigue.
Watery, red or swollen eyes, also called allergic conjunctivitis.
A food allergy can cause:
Tingling in the mouth.
Swelling of the lips, tongue, face or throat.
Itchy welts called hives.
Stuffy nose, sneezing or teary eyes that itch.
Stomach cramps, vomiting or diarrhea.
Anaphylaxis.
An insect sting allergy can cause:
Pain and a large area of swelling called edema at the sting site.
Itching or hives all over the body.
Skin warmth and a change in skin color, also called flushing.
Cough, chest tightness, wheezing or shortness of breath.
Anaphylaxis.
A medicine allergy can cause:
Hives.
Itchy skin or rash.
Facial swelling.
Wheezing.
Shortness of breath.
Vomiting or diarrhea.
Feeling dizzy.
Anaphylaxis.
Atopic dermatitis, an allergic skin condition also called eczema, can cause skin to:
Itch.
Form red or brown patches that may be harder to see on darker skin tones.
Flake, peel or crack.
Causes for Allergies :
Various substances can cause allergies. An allergy starts when the immune system mistakes a substance that's usually harmless for a dangerous invader. The immune system then makes antibodies that stay on the alert for that specific allergen. When you're exposed to the allergen again, these antibodies can release some immune system chemicals that cause allergy symptoms.
Common allergy triggers include:
Airborne allergens, such as pollen, animal dander, dust mites and mold.
Certain foods, especially peanuts, tree nuts, wheat, soy, fish, shellfish, eggs and milk.
Insect stings, such as from a bee or wasp.
Medicines, especially penicillin or penicillin-based antibiotics.
Latex or other substances you touch, which can cause allergic skin reactions.
Risk Factors for Allergies:
Risk factors for allergies include:
Having a family history of asthma or allergies, such as hay fever, hives or eczema.
Being a child.
Having asthma or another allergic condition.
Complications for Allergies:
Having an allergy raises the risk of certain other health conditions called complications, including:
Anaphylaxis. If you have severe allergies, that raises your risk of this serious allergic reaction. Foods, medicines, latex and insect stings are the most common triggers of anaphylaxis.
Asthma. If you have an allergy, you're more likely to have asthma. Asthma is an immune system reaction that affects the airways and breathing. Often, asthma is triggered by exposure to an allergen in the environment. This is known as allergy-induced asthma.
Infections of the sinuses, ears or lungs. Your risk of getting these conditions is higher if you have hay fever or asthma.
Preventions for Allergies
Preventing allergic reactions depends on the type of allergy you have. General measures include the following:
Stay away from known triggers. Do this even if you get treatment for your allergy symptoms. If, for instance, you're allergic to pollen, stay inside with windows and doors closed when pollen is high. If you're allergic to dust mites, dust and vacuum and wash bedding often. You also can use "mite-proof" covers for items such as pillows, comforters, mattresses and box springs.
Keep a diary. When trying to figure out what causes your allergic symptoms or makes them worse, track your activities and what you eat. Also note when symptoms happen and what seems to help. This may help you and your healthcare professional find your triggers.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. If you've had a severe allergic reaction, wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. It lets others know that you have a serious allergy in case you have a reaction and you're not able to speak.
Condition name:Alpha-gal syndrome
Overview of Alpha-gal syndrome:
Alpha-gal syndrome is a type of food allergy. It makes people allergic to red meat and other products made from mammals.
In the United States, the condition usually begins with the bite of the Lone Star tick. The bite transfers a sugar molecule called alpha-gal into the body. In some people, this triggers a reaction from the body's defenses, also called the immune system. It causes mild to severe allergic reactions to red meat, such as beef, pork or lamb. It also can cause reactions to other foods that come from mammals, such as dairy products or gelatins.
The Lone Star tick is found mainly in the southeastern United States. Most cases of alpha-gal syndrome are reported in the south, east and central United States. But the condition appears to be spreading farther north and west. Deer are carrying the Lone Star tick to new parts of the country. Other types of ticks carry alpha-gal molecules in different parts of the world. Alpha-gal syndrome has been diagnosed in parts of Europe, Australia, Asia, South Africa, and South and Central America.
Some people may have alpha-gal syndrome and not know it. There are people who often have serious allergic reactions, also called anaphylactic reactions, for no clear reason. Tests also show that they don't have other food allergies. Researchers think that some of these people may be affected by alpha-gal syndrome.
There's no treatment other than avoiding red meat and other products made from mammals. If you have a serious allergic reaction, you may need medicine called epinephrine and treatment at the emergency room.
Avoid tick bites to prevent alpha-gal syndrome. Wear long pants and long-sleeved shirts when you're in wooded, grassy areas. Use bug spray too. Check your whole body for ticks after you spend time outside.
There are no home remedies available for Alpha-gal syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Alpha-gal syndrome :
The symptoms of an alpha-gal allergic reaction usually take longer to start compared with those of other food allergies. Most reactions to common food allergens — peanuts or shellfish, for example — happen within minutes after you are exposed to them. In alpha-gal syndrome, reactions usually appear about 3 to 6 hours after you are exposed. Foods that can cause a reaction include:
Red meat, such as beef, pork or lamb.
Organ meats.
Products made from mammals, such as gelatins or dairy products.
Symptoms of alpha-gal syndrome may include:
Hives, itching, or itchy, scaly skin.
Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat, or other body parts.
Wheezing or shortness of breath.
Stomach pain, diarrhea, upset stomach or vomiting.
The time delay between eating meat products and getting an allergic reaction may be one reason alpha-gal syndrome was not understood at first. For example, a possible connection between a T-bone steak with dinner and hives at midnight is far from clear.
Researchers think they know the reason for the delayed reaction. They say it's due to the alpha-gal molecules taking longer than other allergens to be digested and enter the system that moves blood through the body.
Causes for Alpha-gal syndrome :
Most people with alpha-gal syndrome in the U.S. get the condition when a Lone Star tick bites them. Bites from other types of ticks can lead to the condition too. These other ticks cause alpha-gal syndrome in parts of Europe, Australia, Asia, South Africa, and South and Central America.
Risk Factors for Alpha-gal syndrome:
Health care providers don't yet know why some people get alpha-gal syndrome after exposure and others don't. The condition mostly happens in the south, east and central United States. You're at higher risk if you live or spend time in these regions and:
Spend a lot of time outdoors.
Have gotten multiple Lone Star tick bites.
In the past 20 to 30 years, the Lone Star tick has been found in large numbers as far north as Maine. This tick also has been found as far west as central Texas and Oklahoma.
Alpha-gal syndrome also happens in other parts of the world. This includes parts of Europe, Australia, Asia, South Africa, and South and Central America. In those places, bites from certain types of ticks also appear to raise the risk of the condition.
Complications for Alpha-gal syndrome:
Alpha-gal syndrome can cause a serious allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. It can be deadly without treatment. Anaphylaxis is treated with prescription medicine called epinephrine, also known as adrenaline. You can give yourself a shot of epinephrine with a device called an auto-injector (EpiPen, Auvi-Q, others). You also need to go to the emergency room.
Anaphylaxis symptoms can include:
Tight, narrow airways.
Swelling of the throat that makes it hard to breathe.
A serious drop in blood pressure, called shock.
Rapid pulse.
Feeling dizzy or lightheaded, or passing out
Health care providers think that some people who get anaphylaxis often and for no clear reason may be living with alpha-gal syndrome. They just haven't been diagnosed with it.
There are no preventive measures available for Alpha-gal syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Alzheimer's disease
Overview of Alzheimer's disease:
Alzheimer's disease is a brain disorder that gets worse over time. It's characterized by changes in the brain that lead to deposits of certain proteins. Alzheimer's disease causes the brain to shrink and brain cells to eventually die. Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia — a gradual decline in memory, thinking, behavior and social skills. These changes affect a person's ability to function.
About 6.5 million people in the United States age 65 and older live with Alzheimer's disease. Among them, more than 70% are 75 years old and older. Of the about 55 million people worldwide with dementia, 60% to 70% are estimated to have Alzheimer's disease.
The early signs of the disease include forgetting recent events or conversations. Over time, it progresses to serious memory problems and loss of the ability to perform everyday tasks.
Medicines may improve or slow the progression of symptoms. Programs and services can help support people with the disease and their caregivers.
There is no treatment that cures Alzheimer's disease. In advanced stages, severe loss of brain function can cause dehydration, malnutrition or infection. These complications can result in death.
Home Remedies for Alzheimer's disease:
Healthy lifestyle choices promote good overall health. They also may play a role in maintaining brain health.
Exercise
Regular exercise is an important part of a treatment plan. Activities such as a daily walk can help improve mood and maintain the health of joints, muscles and the heart. Exercise also promotes restful sleep and prevents constipation. It's beneficial for care partners, too.
People with Alzheimer's who have trouble walking may still be able to use a stationary bike, stretch with elastic bands or participate in chair exercises. You may find exercise programs geared to older adults on TV, the internet or DVDs.
Nutrition
People with Alzheimer's may forget to eat, lose interest in meals or may not eat healthy foods. They may also forget to drink enough, leading to dehydration and constipation.
Offer the following:
Healthy options. Buy favorite healthy food options that are easy to eat.
Water and other healthy beverages. Encourage drinking several glasses of liquids every day. Avoid beverages with caffeine, which can increase restlessness, interfere with sleep and trigger a need to urinate often.
High-calorie, healthy shakes and smoothies. Serve milkshakes with protein powders or make smoothies. This is helpful when eating becomes more difficult.
Social engagement and activities
Social activities can support preserved skills and abilities. They also help with over-all well-being. Do things that are meaningful and enjoyable. Someone with dementia might:
Listen to music or dance.
Read or listen to books.
Garden or do crafts.
Go to social events at senior or memory care centers.
Do activities with children.
Symptoms for Alzheimer's disease :
Memory loss is the key symptom of Alzheimer's disease. Early signs include difficulty remembering recent events or conversations. But memory gets worse and other symptoms develop as the disease progresses.
At first, someone with the disease may be aware of having trouble remembering things and thinking clearly. As symptoms get worse, a family member or friend may be more likely to notice the issues.
Brain changes associated with Alzheimer's disease lead to growing trouble with:
Causes for Alzheimer's disease :
The exact causes of Alzheimer's disease aren't fully understood. But at a basic level, brain proteins fail to function as usual. This disrupts the work of brain cells, also called neurons, and triggers a series of events. The neurons become damaged and lose connections to each other. They eventually die.
Scientists believe that for most people, Alzheimer's disease is caused by a combination of genetic, lifestyle and environmental factors that affect the brain over time. In less than 1% of cases, Alzheimer's is caused by specific genetic changes that almost guarantee a person will develop the disease. In these cases, the disease usually begins in middle age.
The development of the disease begins years before the first symptoms. The damage most often starts in the region of the brain that controls memory. The loss of neurons spreads in a somewhat predictable pattern to other regions of the brain. By the late stage of the disease, the brain has shrunk significantly.
Researchers trying to understand the cause of Alzheimer's disease are focused on the role of two proteins:
Plaques. Beta-amyloid is a fragment of a larger protein. When these fragments clump together, they appear to have a toxic effect on neurons and to disrupt communication between brain cells. These clumps form larger deposits called amyloid plaques, which also include other cellular debris.
Tangles. Tau proteins play a part in a brain cell's internal support and transport system to carry nutrients and other essential materials. In Alzheimer's disease, tau proteins change shape and organize into structures called neurofibrillary tangles. The tangles disrupt the transport system and cause damage to cells.
There are no Risk Factors available for Alzheimer's disease in the knowledge baseComplications for Alzheimer's disease:
Alzheimer's symptoms such as memory loss, language loss, impaired judgment and other brain changes can make it harder to manage other health conditions. A person with Alzheimer's disease may not be able to:
Tell someone about being in pain.
Explain symptoms of another illness.
Follow a treatment plan.
Explain medicine side effects.
As Alzheimer's disease moves into its last stages, brain changes begin to affect physical functions. The changes can affect the ability to swallow, balance, and control bowel and bladder movements. These effects can lead to other health problems such as:
Inhaling food or liquid into the lungs.
Flu, pneumonia and other infections.
Falls.
Fractures.
Bedsores.
Poor nutrition or dehydration.
Constipation or diarrhea.
Dental problems such as mouth sores or tooth decay.
Preventions for Alzheimer's disease
Alzheimer's disease is not a preventable condition. However, a number of lifestyle risk factors can be modified.
Evidence suggests that taking steps to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease may also lower your risk of developing dementia.
To follow heart-healthy lifestyle choices that may reduce the risk of dementia:
Exercise regularly.
Eat a diet of fresh produce, healthy oils and foods low in saturated fat, such as a Mediterranean diet.
Follow treatment guidelines to manage high blood pressure, diabetes and high cholesterol.
If you smoke, ask your health care professional for help to quit.
One large, long-term study done in Finland found that making lifestyle changes helped reduce cognitive decline among people who were at risk of dementia. Those in the study were given individual and group sessions that focused on diet, exercise and social activities.
In another study done in Australia, people at risk of dementia were given coaching sessions on diet, exercise and other lifestyle changes. They had better results on cognitive tests after one, two and three years compared to people who didn't receive the coaching.
Other studies have shown that staying engaged mentally and socially is linked to preserved thinking skills later in life and a lower risk of Alzheimer's disease. This includes going to social events, reading, dancing, playing board games, creating art, playing an instrument and other activities.
Condition name:Ambiguous genitalia
Overview of Ambiguous genitalia:
Atypical genitalia, formerly called ambiguous genitalia, is a rare condition in which an infant's genitals don't appear to be clearly male or female on the outside. In a baby with atypical genitalia, the genitals may not be developed fully or may look different from what is expected. Or the baby may have features of more than one sex. The sex organs on the outside of the body may not match the sex organs on the inside. And they may not match the genetic sex, which is determined by sex chromosomes: typically, XX for females and XY for males.
External genitals are the sex organs on the outside of the body. They include the opening of the vagina and the labia, clitoris, penis and scrotum. Internal genitals are the sex organs inside the body. They include the vagina, fallopian tubes, uterus, prostate, ovaries and testicles. Sex hormones are made by the ovaries and testicles, which also are called gonads. Genetic sex is set based on sex chromosomes. Typically, these sex chromosomes are a genetic female with two X chromosomes and a genetic male with one X and one Y chromosome.
Atypical genitalia is not a disease; it's a difference of sex development. Usually, atypical genitalia can be seen at or shortly after birth. The condition can be very distressing for families. Your medical team looks for the cause of atypical genitalia and provides information and counseling that can help guide decisions about your baby's sex and any needed treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Ambiguous genitalia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ambiguous genitalia :
Your medical team will likely be the first to notice atypical genitalia soon after your baby is born. Sometimes, atypical genitalia may be suspected before birth. Atypical genitalia can vary in appearance. Differences may depend on when during genital development the hormone changes that affected development occurred and the cause.
Babies who are genetically female, which means they have two X chromosomes, may have:
An enlarged clitoris, which may look like a penis.
Closed labia, or labia that include folds and look like a scrotum.
Lumps that feel like testicles in the fused labia.
Babies who are genetically male, which means they have one X and one Y chromosome, may have:
A condition in which the narrow tube that carries urine and semen, called the urethra, doesn't fully extend to the tip of the penis. If the tube opening is on the underside of the penis, the condition is called hypospadias.
A very small penis with the urethral opening closer to the scrotum.
One or both testicles missing in what appears to be the scrotum.
Testicles that remain in the body, also called undescended testicles, and an empty scrotum that has the appearance of labia with or without a micropenis.
Causes for Ambiguous genitalia :
Atypical genitalia usually happen when hormone changes during pregnancy stop or disturb an unborn baby's developing sex organs. An unborn baby also is called a fetus.
Risk Factors for Ambiguous genitalia:
Family history may play a role in the development of atypical genitalia. This is because many differences of sex development result from gene changes that can be passed down in families. Possible risk factors for atypical genitalia include a family history of:
Unexplained deaths in early infancy.
Infertility, not having menstrual periods or having a lot of facial hair in females.
Atypical genitalia.
Atypical physical development during puberty.
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia, a group of genetic conditions that affect the adrenal glands and are passed down in families.
If your family has a history of these risk factors, talk with your healthcare professional before trying to get pregnant. Genetic counseling also can help in planning ahead.
Complications for Ambiguous genitalia:
Complications of atypical genitalia may include:
Infertility. Whether people with atypical genitalia can have children depends on the specific diagnosis. For example, genetic females with congenital adrenal hyperplasia usually can get pregnant if they so choose.
Higher risk of certain cancers. Some differences of sex development are linked with a higher risk of certain types of cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Ambiguous genitalia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ameloblastoma
Overview of Ameloblastoma:
Ameloblastoma is a rare, noncancerous (benign) tumor that develops most often in the jaw near the molars. Ameloblastoma begins in the cells that form the protective enamel lining on your teeth.
The most common type of ameloblastoma is aggressive, forming a large tumor and growing into the jawbone. Treatment may include surgery and radiation. In some cases, reconstruction may be necessary to restore your teeth, jaw and facial appearance. Some types of ameloblastoma are less aggressive.
Though ameloblastoma is most often diagnosed in adults in their 30s through 60s, ameloblastoma can occur in children and young adults.
There are no home remedies available for Ameloblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ameloblastoma :
Ameloblastoma often causes no symptoms, but signs and symptoms may include pain and a lump or swelling in the jaw.
If left untreated, the tumor can grow very large, distorting the shape of the lower face and jaw and shifting teeth out of position.
Causes for Ameloblastoma :
Ameloblastoma begins in the cells that form the protective enamel lining on your teeth. Rarely, it may start in gum tissue. The exact cause of the tumor is unclear, but several genetic changes (mutations) may be involved in the development of ameloblastoma. These changes may impact the location of the tumor, the type of cells involved and how fast the tumor grows.
Ameloblastomas are generally classified by type, but they can also be classified by cell type. The four main types include:
Conventional ameloblastoma. This is the most common type and grows aggressively, usually in the lower jawbone, and approximately 10% recur after treatment.
Unicystic ameloblastoma. This type is less aggressive, but typically occurs at a younger age. The tumor is often in the back of the lower jawbone at the molars. Recurrence is possible after treatment.
Peripheral ameloblastoma. This type is rare and affects the gums and oral tissue in the upper or lower jaw. The tumor has a low risk of recurrence after treatment.
Metastasizing ameloblastoma. This type is very rare and is defined by tumor cells that occur away from the primary site in the jaw.
There are no Risk Factors available for Ameloblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Ameloblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ameloblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Amenorrhea
Overview of Amenorrhea:
Amenorrhea (uh-men-o-REE-uh) is the absence of menstruation, often defined as missing one or more menstrual periods.
Primary amenorrhea refers to the absence of menstruation in someone who has not had a period by age 15. The most common causes of primary amenorrhea relate to hormone levels, although anatomical problems also can cause amenorrhea.
Secondary amenorrhea refers to the absence of three or more periods in a row by someone who has had periods in the past. Pregnancy is the most common cause of secondary amenorrhea, although problems with hormones also can cause secondary amenorrhea.
Treatment of amenorrhea depends on the underlying cause.
Home Remedies for Amenorrhea:
Some lifestyle factors â€” such as too much exercise or too little food â€” can cause amenorrhea, so strive for balance in work, recreation and rest. Assess areas of stress and conflict in your life. If you can't decrease stress on your own, ask for help from family, friends or your doctor.
Be aware of changes in your menstrual cycle and check with your doctor if you have concerns. Keep a record of when your periods occur. Note the date your period starts, how long it lasts and any troublesome symptoms you experience.
Symptoms for Amenorrhea :
Depending on the cause of amenorrhea, you might experience other signs or symptoms along with the absence of periods, such as:
Milky nipple discharge
Hair loss
Headache
Vision changes
Excess facial hair
Pelvic pain
Acne
Causes for Amenorrhea :
Amenorrhea can occur for a variety of reasons. Some are normal, while others may be a side effect of medication or a sign of a medical problem.
Risk Factors for Amenorrhea:
Factors that may increase your risk of amenorrhea include:
Family history. If other women in your family have experienced amenorrhea, you may have inherited a predisposition for the problem.
Eating disorders. If you have an eating disorder, such as anorexia or bulimia, you are at higher risk of developing amenorrhea.
Athletic training. Rigorous athletic training can increase your risk of amenorrhea.
History of certain gynecologic procedures. If you've had a D&C, especially related to pregnancy, or a procedure known as loop electrodiathermy excision procedure (LEEP), your risk of developing amenorrhea is higher.
Complications for Amenorrhea:
The causes of amenorrhea can cause other problems as well. These include:
Infertility and problems with pregnancy. If you don't ovulate and don't have menstrual periods, you can't become pregnant. When hormone imbalance is the cause of amenorrhea, this can also cause miscarriage or other problems with pregnancy.
Psychological stress. Not having periods when your peers are having theirs can be stressful, especially for young people who are transitioning into adulthood.
Osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. These two problems can be caused by not having enough estrogen. Osteoporosis is a weakening of the bones. Cardiovascular disease includes heart attack and problems with the blood vessels and heart muscle.
Pelvic pain. If an anatomical problem is causing the amenorrhea, it may also cause pain in the pelvic area.
There are no preventive measures available for Amenorrhea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Amnesia
Overview of Amnesia:
Amnesia refers to the loss of memories, including facts, information and experiences. Movies and television tend to depict amnesia as forgetting your identity, but that's not generally the case in real life.
Instead, people with amnesia — also called amnestic syndrome — usually know who they are. But they may have trouble learning new information and forming new memories.
Amnesia can be caused by damage to areas of the brain that are vital for memory processing. Unlike a temporary episode of memory loss, called transient global amnesia, amnesia can be permanent.
There's no specific treatment for amnesia, but treatment can be directed at the underlying cause. Tips to help enhance memory and get support can help people with amnesia and their families cope.
There are no home remedies available for Amnesia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Amnesia :
The two main features of amnesia are:
Trouble learning new information.
Trouble remembering past events and previously familiar information.
Most people with amnesia have problems with short-term memory, so they can't retain new information. Recent memories are most likely to be lost. More-remote or deeply ingrained memories may be spared.
For example, people may recall experiences from childhood or know the names of past presidents. But they may not be able to name the current president, know the month or remember what they ate for breakfast.
Isolated memory loss doesn't affect a person's intelligence, general knowledge, awareness or attention span. It also doesn't affect judgment, personality or identity. People with amnesia usually can understand written and spoken words and can learn skills such as bike riding or piano playing. They may understand they have a memory disorder.
Amnesia isn't the same as dementia. Dementia often includes memory loss but also involves other problems with thinking that lead to a decline in daily functioning. These problems include having trouble with language, judgment and visual-spatial skills.
Memory loss also is a common symptom of mild cognitive impairment. This disorder involves memory and other cognitive problems that aren't as severe as those experienced in dementia.
Causes for Amnesia :
Typical memory function involves many parts of the brain. Any disease or injury that affects the brain can affect memory.
Amnesia can result from damage to brain structures that form the limbic system, which controls emotions and memories. They include the thalamus found deep within the center of the brain. They also include the hippocampal formations found within the temporal lobes of the brain.
Amnesia caused by brain injury or damage is known as neurological amnesia. Possible causes of neurological amnesia include:
Stroke.
Brain inflammation, which may be due to an infection with a virus such as herpes simplex virus. Or inflammation may be a result of an autoimmune reaction to cancer somewhere in the body. It also may be due to an autoimmune reaction in the absence of cancer.
Not enough oxygen in the brain. This may happen as a result of a heart attack, respiratory distress or carbon monoxide poisoning.
Long-term alcohol misuse that leads to too little vitamin B-1, known as thiamin, in the body. When this happens, it's called Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome.
Tumors in areas of the brain that control memory.
Alzheimer's disease and other diseases that involve the degeneration of nerve tissue.
Seizures.
Certain medicines such as benzodiazepines or others that act as sedatives.
Head injuries that cause a concussion, whether from a car accident or sports, can lead to confusion and problems remembering new information. This is especially common in the early stages of recovery. Mild head injuries typically don't cause lasting amnesia, but more-severe head injuries may cause permanent amnesia.
Another rare type of amnesia, called dissociative amnesia, stems from emotional shock or trauma. It can result from being the victim of a violent crime or experiencing other trauma. In this disorder, people may lose personal memories and information about their lives. The memory loss is usually brief.
Risk Factors for Amnesia:
The chance of developing amnesia might increase if you've experienced:
Brain surgery, head injury or trauma.
Stroke.
Alcohol abuse.
Seizures.
Complications for Amnesia:
Amnesia varies in severity and scope. But even mild amnesia takes a toll on daily activities and quality of life. The syndrome can cause problems at work, at school and in social settings.
It may not be possible to recover lost memories. Some people with severe memory problems need to be supervised or need to live in a care facility.
Preventions for Amnesia
Damage to the brain can be a root cause of amnesia. It's important to take steps to minimize your chance of a brain injury. For example:
Don't drink large amounts of alcohol.
Wear a helmet when bicycling and a seat belt when driving.
Treat infections quickly so that they don't have a chance to spread to the brain.
Get immediate medical treatment if you have symptoms that suggest a stroke or brain aneurysm. Those symptoms include a severe headache, feeling numb on one side of the body or not being able to move one side of the body.
Condition name:Ampullary cancer
Overview of Ampullary cancer:
Ampullary cancer is cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the ampulla of Vater. The ampulla of Vater is located where the bile duct and pancreatic duct join and empty into the small intestine. Ampullary (AM-poo-la-ree) cancer is rare.
Ampullary cancer forms near many other parts of the digestive system. This includes the liver, pancreas and small intestine. When ampullary cancer grows, it may affect these other organs.
Ampullary cancer treatment often involves surgery to remove the cancer. Treatment also may include radiation therapy and chemotherapy to kill cancer cells.
There are no home remedies available for Ampullary cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ampullary cancer :
Signs and symptoms of ampullary cancer may include:
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice.
Diarrhea.
Clay-colored stools.
Abdominal pain.
Fever.
Blood in the stool.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Weight loss.
Causes for Ampullary cancer :
It's not clear what causes ampullary cancer.
Ampullary cancer happens when cells in the ampulla of Vater develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Ampullary cancer:
Factors that can increase the risk of ampullary cancer include:
Increasing age. Ampullary cancer is more common in adults older than 70.
DNA changes that run in families. Some DNA changes that are passed down from your parents can increase your risk of ampullary cancer and other cancers. Examples include the DNA changes that are linked to Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, also called FAP, and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.
There is no way to prevent ampullary cancer.
There are no Complications available for Ampullary cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ampullary cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Amyloidosis
Overview of Amyloidosis:
Amyloidosis (am-uh-loi-DO-sis) is a rare disease that occurs when a protein called amyloid builds up in organs. This amyloid buildup can make the organs not work properly.
Organs that may be affected include the heart, kidneys, liver, spleen, nervous system and digestive tract.
Some types of amyloidosis occur with other diseases. These types may improve with treatment of the other diseases. Some types of amyloidosis may lead to life-threatening organ failure.
Treatments may include chemotherapy with strong drugs used to treat cancer. Other types of medications can reduce amyloid production and control symptoms. Some people may benefit from organ or stem cell transplants.
There are no home remedies available for Amyloidosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Amyloidosis :
You may not experience symptoms of amyloidosis until later in the course of the disease. Symptoms may vary, depending on which organs are affected.
Signs and symptoms of amyloidosis may include:
Severe fatigue and weakness
Shortness of breath
Numbness, tingling, or pain in the hands or feet
Swelling of the ankles and legs
Diarrhea, possibly with blood, or constipation
An enlarged tongue, which sometimes looks rippled around its edge
Skin changes, such as thickening or easy bruising, and purplish patches around the eyes
Causes for Amyloidosis :
There are many different types of amyloidosis. Some types are hereditary. Others are caused by outside factors, such as inflammatory diseases or long-term dialysis. Many types affect multiple organs. Others affect only one part of the body.
Types of amyloidosis include:
AL amyloidosis (immunoglobulin light chain amyloidosis). This is the most common type of amyloidosis in developed countries. AL amyloidosis is also called primary amyloidosis. It usually affects the heart, kidneys, liver and nerves.
AA amyloidosis. This type is also known as secondary amyloidosis. It's usually triggered by an inflammatory disease, such as rheumatoid arthritis. It most commonly affects the kidneys, liver and spleen.
Hereditary amyloidosis (familial amyloidosis). This inherited disorder often affects the nerves, heart and kidneys. It most commonly happens when a protein made by your liver is abnormal. This protein is called transthyretin (TTR).
Wild-type amyloidosis. This variety has also been called senile systemic amyloidosis. It occurs when the TTR protein made by the liver is normal but produces amyloid for unknown reasons. Wild-type amyloidosis tends to affect men over age 70 and often targets the heart. It can also cause carpal tunnel syndrome.
Localized amyloidosis. This type of amyloidosis often has a better prognosis than the varieties that affect multiple organ systems. Typical sites for localized amyloidosis include the bladder, skin, throat or lungs. Correct diagnosis is important so that treatments that affect the entire body can be avoided.
Risk Factors for Amyloidosis:
Factors that increase the risk of amyloidosis include:
Age. Most people diagnosed with amyloidosis are between ages 60 and 70.
Sex. Amyloidosis occurs more commonly in men.
Other diseases. Having a chronic infectious or inflammatory disease increases the risk of AA amyloidosis.
Family history. Some types of amyloidosis are hereditary.
Kidney dialysis. Dialysis can't always remove large proteins from the blood. If you're on dialysis, abnormal proteins can build up in your blood and eventually be deposited in tissue. This condition is less common with more modern dialysis techniques.
Race. People of African descent appear to be at higher risk of carrying a genetic mutation associated with a type of amyloidosis that can harm the heart.
Complications for Amyloidosis:
Amyloidosis can seriously damage the:
Heart. Amyloid reduces the heart's ability to fill with blood between heartbeats. Less blood is pumped with each beat. This can cause shortness of breath. If amyloidosis affects the heart's electrical system, it can cause heart rhythm problems. Amyloid-related heart problems can become life-threatening.
Kidneys. Amyloid can harm the kidneys' filtering system. This affects their ability to remove waste products from the body. It can eventually cause kidney failure.
Nervous system. Nerve damage can cause pain, numbness, or tingling of the fingers and feet. If amyloid affects the nerves that control bowel function, it can cause periods of alternating constipation and diarrhea. Damage to the nerves that control blood pressure can make people feel faint if they stand up too quickly.
There are no preventive measures available for Amyloidosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
Overview of Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS):
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (a-my-o-TROE-fik LAT-ur-ul skluh-ROE-sis), known as ALS, is a nervous system disease that affects nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. ALS causes loss of muscle control. The disease gets worse over time.
ALS is often called Lou Gehrig's disease after the baseball player who was diagnosed with it. The exact cause of the disease is still not known. A small number of cases are inherited.
ALS often begins with muscle twitching and weakness in an arm or leg, trouble swallowing or slurred speech. Eventually ALS affects control of the muscles needed to move, speak, eat and breathe. There is no cure for this fatal disease.
There are no home remedies available for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) :
Symptoms of ALS vary from person to person. Symptoms depend on which nerve cells are affected. ALS generally begins with muscle weakness that spreads and gets worse over time. Symptoms might include:
Trouble walking or doing usual daily activities.
Tripping and falling.
Weakness in the legs, feet or ankles.
Hand weakness or clumsiness.
Slurred speech or trouble swallowing.
Weakness associated with muscle cramps and twitching in the arms, shoulders and tongue.
Untimely crying, laughing or yawning.
Thinking or behavioral changes.
ALS often starts in the hands, feet, arms or legs. Then it spreads to other parts of the body. Muscles get weaker as more nerve cells die. This eventually affects chewing, swallowing, speaking and breathing.
There's generally no pain in the early stages of ALS. Pain also is not common in the later stages. ALS doesn't usually affect bladder control. It also usually doesn't affect the senses, including the ability to taste, smell, touch and hear.
Causes for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) :
ALS affects the nerve cells that control voluntary muscle movements such as walking and talking. These nerve cells are called motor neurons. There are two groups of motor neurons. The first group extends from the brain to the spinal cord to muscles throughout the body. They're referred to as upper motor neurons. The second group extends from the spinal cord to muscles throughout the body. They're referred to as lower motor neurons.
ALS causes both groups of motor neurons to gradually deteriorate and then die. When motor neurons are damaged, they stop sending messages to the muscles. As a result, the muscles can't function.
For about 10% of people with ALS, a genetic cause can be identified. For the rest, the cause is not known.
Researchers continue to study possible causes of ALS. Most theories center on a complex interaction between genes and factors in the environment.
Risk Factors for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS):
Established risk factors for ALS include:
Genetics. For about 10% of people with ALS, a risk gene was passed down from a family member. This is called hereditary ALS. In most people with hereditary ALS, their children have a 50% chance of inheriting the gene.
Age. Risk increases with age up to age 75. ALS is most common between the ages of 60 and the mid-80s.
Sex. Before the age of 65, slightly more men than women develop ALS. This sex difference disappears after age 70.
Environmental factors, such as the following, have been associated with an increased risk of ALS.
Smoking. Evidence supports that smoking is an environmental risk factor for ALS. Women who smoke seem to be at even higher risk, particularly after menopause.
Environmental toxin exposure. Some evidence suggests that exposure to lead or other substances in the workplace or at home might be linked to ALS. Much study has been done, but no one agent or chemical has been consistently associated with ALS.
Military service. Studies indicate that people who have served in the military are at higher risk of ALS. It's not clear what about military service might trigger ALS. It might include exposure to certain metals or chemicals, traumatic injuries, viral infections, or intense exertion.
Complications for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS):
As the disease progresses, ALS causes complications, such as:
There are no preventive measures available for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Anal cancer
Overview of Anal cancer:
Anal cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the anal canal. The anal canal is a short tube at the end of rectum. Stool passes through the anal canal as it leaves the body.
Anal cancer can cause symptoms such as rectal bleeding, blood in the stool and anal pain. As it grows, it might cause a growth or lump. Sometimes these symptoms might be mistaken for hemorrhoids.
In the past, most people with anal cancer had surgery to remove the cancer. Often this operation involved making a new way for waste to leave the body. Today, most anal cancer treatment involves chemotherapy and radiation therapy. With this approach, surgery might not be needed.
There are no home remedies available for Anal cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Anal cancer :
Anal cancer signs and symptoms include:
Bleeding from the anus or rectum.
Blood in the stool.
Pain in the area of the anus.
A mass or growth in the anal canal.
Anal itching.
Having to go to the bathroom more often.
Causes for Anal cancer :
Anal cancer happens when cells in the anal canal develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Most anal cancers are thought to be caused by human papillomavirus, also called HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, the virus never causes problems. It usually goes away on its own. For some, though, the virus can cause changes in the cells that may lead to cancer.
Risk Factors for Anal cancer:
Things that may increase the risk of anal cancer include:
Being exposed to human papillomavirus, also called HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, it causes no problems and goes away on its own. For others, it causes changes in the cells that can lead to many types of cancer, including anal cancer.
Increasing number of sexual partners. The greater your number of sexual partners, and the greater your partner's number of sexual partners, the greater your chance of acquiring HPV.
Having anal sex. People who have receptive anal sex have an increased risk of anal cancer.
Smoking cigarettes. People who smoke cigarettes have an increased risk of anal cancer.
Having a history of cancer. Those who have had cervical, vulvar or vaginal cancer have an increased risk of anal cancer.
Having a weak immune system. If the body's germ-fighting immune system is weakened by medicines or illness, there might be a higher risk of anal cancer. People with a weakened immune system include those taking medicines to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. Certain medical conditions, such as infection with HIV, also can weaken the immune system.
Complications for Anal cancer:
Anal cancer rarely spreads to other parts of the body. Only a small percentage of cancers are found to have spread. Those that do are especially difficult to treat. Anal cancer that spreads most commonly goes to the liver and the lungs.
There are no preventive measures available for Anal cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Anal fissure
Overview of Anal fissure:
An anal fissure is a small tear in the thin, moist tissue that lines the anus. The anus is the muscular opening at the end of the digestive tract where stool exits the body. Common causes of an anal fissure include constipation and straining or passing hard or large stools during a bowel movement. Anal fissures typically cause pain and bleeding with bowel movements. You also may experience spasms in the ring of muscle at the end of your anus, called the anal sphincter.
Anal fissures are very common in young infants but can affect people of any age. Most anal fissures get better with simple treatments, such as increased fiber intake or soaking in a warm-water bath. Some people with anal fissures may need medicine or, occasionally, surgery.
Home Remedies for Anal fissure:
Several lifestyle changes may help relieve discomfort and promote healing of an anal fissure, as well as prevent recurrences. Changes include:
Adding fiber to your diet. Eating about 25 to 35 grams of fiber a day can help keep stools soft and improve fissure healing. Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables, nuts and whole grains. You also can take a fiber supplement. Adding fiber may cause gas and bloating, so increase your intake gradually.
Drinking adequate fluids. Fluids help prevent constipation.
Not straining during bowel movements. Straining creates pressure, which can open a healing tear or cause a new tear.
Sitting in a warm bath. Also called a sitz bath, soaking in warm water for 10 to 20 minutes several times a day can soothe the skin and promote relaxation. If possible, take a sitz bath after bowel movements.
If your infant has an anal fissure, change diapers frequently and wash the area gently. Also, be sure to discuss the problem with your child's health care provider.
Symptoms for Anal fissure :
Symptoms of an anal fissure include:
Pain during bowel movements.
Pain after bowel movements that can last up to several hours.
Bright red blood on the stool or toilet paper after a bowel movement.
A visible crack in the skin around the anus.
A small lump or skin tag on the skin near the anal fissure.
Causes for Anal fissure :
Common causes of anal fissures include:
Passing large or hard stools.
Constipation and straining during bowel movements.
Long-lasting diarrhea.
Anal intercourse.
Childbirth.
Less common causes of anal fissures include:
Crohn's disease or another inflammatory bowel disease.
Anal cancer.
HIV.
Tuberculosis.
Syphilis.
Risk Factors for Anal fissure:
Factors that may increase your risk of developing an anal fissure include:
Constipation. Straining during bowel movements and passing hard stools increase the risk of tearing.
Childbirth. Anal fissures are more common in women after they give birth.
Crohn's disease. This inflammatory bowel disease causes chronic inflammation of the intestinal tract. This may make the lining of the anal canal more vulnerable to tearing.
Anal intercourse.
Age. Anal fissures can occur at any age, but are more common in infants and middle-aged adults.
Complications for Anal fissure:
Complications of an anal fissure may include:
Failure to heal. An anal fissure that fails to heal within eight weeks is considered chronic and may need further treatment.
Recurrence. Once you've experienced an anal fissure, you are prone to having another one.
A tear that extends to surrounding muscles. An anal fissure may extend into the ring of muscle that holds your anus closed. This muscle is called the internal anal sphincter. If this happens, it makes it more difficult for your anal fissure to heal. An unhealed fissure may trigger a cycle of discomfort that may require medicines or surgery to reduce the pain and to repair or remove the fissure.
Preventions for Anal fissure
You may be able to prevent an anal fissure by taking measures to prevent constipation or diarrhea. Eat high-fiber foods, drink fluids, and exercise regularly to keep from having to strain during bowel movements.
Condition name:Anal fistula
Overview of Anal fistula:
An anal fistula — also called fistula-in-ano — is a tunnel that develops between the inside of the anus and the outside skin around the anus. The anus is the muscular opening at the end of the digestive tract where stool exits the body.
Most anal fistulas are the result of an infection that starts in an anal gland. The infection causes an abscess that drains on its own or is drained surgically through the skin next to the anus. This drainage tunnel remains open and connects the infected anal gland or the anal canal to a hole in the outside skin around the anus.
Surgery is usually needed to treat an anal fistula. Sometimes nonsurgical treatments may be an option.
Home Remedies for Anal fistula:
Your health care provider may suggest measures to make you more comfortable during healing:
Use pain medication, as needed
Soak in a warm sitz bath
Add fiber to your diet and drink plenty of liquid to prevent constipation
Avoid straining during bowel movements
Symptoms for Anal fistula :
Symptoms of an anal fistula can include:
An opening on the skin around the anus
A red, inflamed area around the tunnel opening
Oozing of pus, blood or stool from the tunnel opening
Pain in the rectum and anus, especially when sitting or passing stool
Fever
Causes for Anal fistula :
Most anal fistulas are caused by an infection that starts in an anal gland. The infection results in an abscess that drains on its own or is drained surgically through the skin next to the anus. A fistula is the tunnel that forms under the skin along this drainage tract. The tunnel connects the anal gland or anal canal to a hole in the outside skin around the anus.
Rings of sphincter muscle at the opening of the anus allow you to control the release of stool. Fistulas are classified by their involvement of these sphincter muscles. This classification helps the surgeon determine treatment options.
Risk Factors for Anal fistula:
Risk factors for an anal fistula include:
Previously drained anal abscess
Crohn's disease or other inflammatory bowel disease
Trauma to the anal area
Infections of the anal area
Surgery or radiation for treatment of anal cancer
Anal fistulas occur most often in adults around the age of 40 but may occur in younger people, especially if there is a history of Crohn's disease. Anal fistulas occur more often in males than in females.
There are no Complications available for Anal fistula in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Anal fistula in the knowledge baseCondition name:Anal itching
Overview of Anal itching:
Anal itching is a common condition. The itch in or around the anus is often intense and can be embarrassing and uncomfortable.
Anal itching, also called pruritus ani (proo-RIE-tus A-nie), has several possible causes. They include infections, hemorrhoids and ongoing diarrhea. Skin inflammation, also called dermatitis, is another cause.
If the symptoms don't clear up with self-care, talk with your health care provider. With treatment, most people get complete relief.
Home Remedies for Anal itching:
Prevention of anal itching mainly involves a careful washing routine that keeps the area clean, cool and dry, while avoiding irritating the skin.
If you already have anal itching, try these self-care steps to ease your symptoms:
Cleanse gently. Clean the area around the anus when it's soiled or after each bowel movement when possible. This may involve a quick shower, a bidet, a sitz bath or a squeeze bottle. Moist toilet tissue can help. Avoid scrubbing or rough cloths. Pat dry with a cloth or dry the area with a hair dryer on fan-only setting. Using the heat setting could further irritate this delicate area.
Don't scratch. Scratching provides only short-term relief from itchy skin. It further irritates your skin. You may find some relief by applying a moist, room-temperature compress to the area or taking a lukewarm oatmeal bath. Trim your nails short and wear cotton gloves to bed to prevent scratching while you're sleeping.
Wear white cotton underwear that doesn't bind. This helps keep the area dry. Avoid wearing pantyhose and other tight-fitting garments because these can trap moisture.
Avoid irritants. Avoid bubble baths, genital deodorants, scented toilet paper, personal cleansing wipes, and harsh or perfumed soaps. Cleansing with a gentle soap and water and not using any other products is usually the best.
Change your diet. Cut back on or avoid the following items until your symptoms clear up: tea, coffee, cola, alcohol, citrus fruits, pepper, dairy products, spicy foods, tomato sauce and tomatoes. Avoid overuse of laxatives.
Apply ointments, creams or gels. Protect the affected skin from moisture by applying a thin layer of a zinc oxide ointment (Desitin, Balmex) or petroleum jelly (Vaseline). If needed to ease inflammation and itching, apply hydrocortisone 1% cream 2 to 3 times daily for a week or two.
Eat more vegetables, whole grains and noncitrus fruits. This will help with maintaining regular bowel movements. Other sources of fiber are beans, nuts and seeds. Fiber supplements such as psyllium (Metamucil) and methylcellulose (Citrucel) may help.
Symptoms for Anal itching :
Symptoms of anal itching may include intense itching, inflammation, burning and soreness. The itching and irritation may be short lived or more persistent, depending on the cause. Anal itching often is worse at bedtime or in hot, humid weather.
Causes for Anal itching :
Possible causes of anal itching include:
Irritants. Fecal incontinence and long-term diarrhea can irritate the skin. Or your skin care routine may include products or behaviors that irritate the skin. Examples include using harsh soaps or wiping too hard and too often.
Infections. These include sexually transmitted infections, pinworm infections and yeast infections.
Skin conditions. Sometimes anal itching is the result of a specific skin condition, such as dry skin, psoriasis or contact dermatitis.
Other medical conditions. These include diabetes, thyroid disease and hemorrhoids.
Often the cause of anal itching isn't known.
There are no Risk Factors available for Anal itching in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Anal itching in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Anal itching in the knowledge baseCondition name:Anemia
Overview of Anemia:
Anemia is a problem of not having enough healthy red blood cells or hemoglobin to carry oxygen to the body's tissues. Hemoglobin is a protein found in red cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all other organs in the body. Having anemia can cause tiredness, weakness and shortness of breath.
There are many forms of anemia. Each has its own cause. Anemia can be short term or long term. It can range from mild to severe. Anemia can be a warning sign of serious illness.
Treatments for anemia might involve taking supplements or having medical procedures. Eating a healthy diet might prevent some forms of anemia.
There are no home remedies available for Anemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Anemia :
Anemia symptoms depend on the cause and how bad the anemia is. Anemia can be so mild that it causes no symptoms at first. But symptoms usually then occur and get worse as the anemia gets worse.
If another disease causes the anemia, the disease can mask the anemia symptoms. Then a test for another condition might find the anemia. Certain types of anemia have symptoms that point to the cause.
Possible symptoms of anemia include:
Tiredness.
Weakness.
Shortness of breath.
Pale or yellowish skin, which might be more obvious on white skin than on Black or brown skin.
Irregular heartbeat.
Dizziness or lightheadedness.
Chest pain.
Cold hands and feet.
Headaches.
Causes for Anemia :
Anemia occurs when the blood doesn't have enough hemoglobin or red blood cells.
This can happen if:
The body doesn't make enough hemoglobin or red blood cells.
Bleeding causes loss of red blood cells and hemoglobin faster than they can be replaced.
The body destroys red blood cells and the hemoglobin that's in them.
Risk Factors for Anemia:
These factors can increase risk of anemia:
A diet that doesn't have enough of certain vitamins and minerals. Not getting enough iron, vitamin B-12 and folate increases the risk of anemia.
Problems with the small intestine. Having a condition that affects how the small intestine takes in nutrients increases the risk of anemia. Examples are Crohn's disease and celiac disease.
Menstrual periods. In general, having heavy periods can create a risk of anemia. Having periods causes the loss of red blood cells.
Pregnancy. Pregnant people who don't take a multivitamin with folic acid and iron are at an increased risk of anemia.
Ongoing, called chronic, conditions. Having cancer, kidney failure, diabetes or another chronic condition increases the risk of anemia of chronic disease. These conditions can lead to having too few red blood cells.
Slow, chronic blood loss from an ulcer or other source within the body can use up the body's store of iron, leading to iron deficiency anemia.
Family history. Having a family member with a type of anemia passed through families, called inherited, can increase the risk of inherited anemias, such as sickle cell anemia.
Other factors. A history of certain infections, blood diseases and autoimmune conditions increases the risk of anemia. Drinking too much alcohol, being around toxic chemicals, and taking some medicines can affect the making of red blood cells and lead to anemia.
Age. People over age 65 are at increased risk of anemia.
Complications for Anemia:
If not treated, anemia can cause many health problems, such as:
Severe tiredness. Severe anemia can make it impossible to do everyday tasks.
Pregnancy complications. Pregnant people with folate deficiency anemia may be more likely to have complications, such as premature birth.
Heart problems. Anemia can lead to a rapid or irregular heartbeat, called arrhythmia. With anemia, the heart must pump more blood to make up for too little oxygen in the blood. This can lead to an enlarged heart or heart failure.
Death. Some inherited anemias, such as sickle cell anemia, can lead to life-threatening complications. Losing a lot of blood quickly causes severe anemia and can be fatal.
Preventions for Anemia
Many types of anemia can't be prevented. But eating a healthy diet might prevent iron deficiency anemia and vitamin deficiency anemias. A healthy diet includes:
Iron. Iron-rich foods include beef and other meats, beans, lentils, iron-fortified cereals, dark green leafy vegetables, and dried fruit.
Folate. This nutrient, and its human-made form folic acid, can be found in fruits and fruit juices, dark green leafy vegetables, green peas, kidney beans, peanuts, and enriched grain products, such as bread, cereal, pasta and rice.
Vitamin B-12. Foods rich in vitamin B-12 include meat, dairy products, and fortified cereals and soy products.
Vitamin C. Foods rich in vitamin C include citrus fruits and juices, peppers, broccoli, tomatoes, melons, and strawberries. These also help the body take in iron.
If you're concerned about getting enough vitamins and minerals from food, ask your health care provider about taking a multivitamin.
Condition name:Aneurysms
Overview of Aneurysms:
An aneurysm is an abnormal bulge or ballooning in the wall of a blood vessel. An aneurysm can burst. This is called a rupture. A ruptured aneurysm causes bleeding inside the body and often leads to death. Some aneurysms may not cause symptoms. You might not know you have an aneurysm even if it is large.
Aneurysms can develop in several parts of the body, including:
The body's main artery, called the aorta (aortic aneurysm).
The part of the aorta that passes through the belly area (abdominal aortic aneurysm).
The part of the aorta that passes through the chest (thoracic aortic aneurysm).
Blood vessels that send blood to the brain (brain aneurysm).
Blood vessels in other parts of the body, such as the legs, groin or neck (peripheral aneurysm).
Some small aneurysms have a low risk of rupture. To determine the risk of an aneurysm rupture, a health care provider considers:
Your symptoms.
Your medical history.
Your family's medical history.
The size, shape and location of the aneurysm.
Treatment of some aneurysms may only involve regular health checkups and imaging tests. If an aneurysm breaks open, emergency open surgery is needed. Sometimes a less-invasive treatment called endovascular surgery may be done.
There are no home remedies available for Aneurysms in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Aneurysms :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Aneurysms in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Aneurysms in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Aneurysms in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Aneurysms in the knowledge baseCondition name:Angelman syndrome
Overview of Angelman syndrome:
Angelman syndrome is a condition caused by a change in a gene, called a genetic change. Angelman syndrome causes delayed development, problems with speech and balance, mental disability, and, sometimes, seizures.
Many people with Angelman syndrome smile and laugh often. They tend to be happy and easy to excite.
Delays in maturing, called developmental delays, begin between about 6 and 12 months of age. The delays often are the first signs of Angelman syndrome. Seizures may begin between the ages of 2 and 3 years old.
People with Angelman syndrome tend to live close to a typical life span. But the condition can't be cured. Treatment focuses on managing medical, sleep and developmental issues.
There are no home remedies available for Angelman syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Angelman syndrome :
Angelman syndrome symptoms include:
Developmental delays, including no crawling or babbling at 6 to 12 months.
Mental disability, also called intellectual disability.
No speech or little speech.
Trouble walking, moving or balancing.
Smiling and laughing often and seeming happy.
Being easy to excite.
Trouble sucking or feeding.
Trouble going to sleep and staying asleep.
People who have Angelman syndrome also may have:
Seizures, often beginning between 2 and 3 years of age.
Stiff or jerky movements.
Small head size by age 2.
Tongue thrusting.
Hair, skin and eyes that are light in color.
Odd behaviors, such as hand flapping and arms uplifted while walking.
Crossed eyes, also caused strabismus.
Curved spine, also called scoliosis.
Causes for Angelman syndrome :
Angelman syndrome is caused by changes in a gene, called a genetic change. It's most often caused by changes in a gene on chromosome 15 called the ubiquitin protein ligase E3A (UBE3A) gene.
Risk Factors for Angelman syndrome:
Angelman syndrome is rare. Researchers often don't know what causes the genetic changes that result in the disease. Most people with Angelman syndrome don't have a family history.
But sometimes Angelman syndrome may be passed down from a parent. A family history of the disease may increase a baby's risk of getting Angelman syndrome.
Complications for Angelman syndrome:
Complications linked to Angelman syndrome include:
Trouble feeding. Trouble sucking and swallowing together may cause feeding problems in infants. Your child's healthcare professional may suggest a high-calorie formula to help your baby gain weight.
Hyperactivity. Children with Angelman syndrome often move quickly from one activity to another, have a short attention span, and keep their hands or a toy in their mouths. Hyperactivity often decreases with age. Medicine often isn't needed.
Sleep troubles. People with Angelman syndrome often have changes in their sleep-wake patterns. They may need less sleep than most people. Sleep troubles may improve with age. Medicine and behavior therapy may help.
Curving of the spine, also called scoliosis. Some people with Angelman syndrome get a side-to-side spinal curve over time.
Obesity. Obesity is common in older children with Angelman syndrome.
Preventions for Angelman syndrome
Rarely, Angelman syndrome may be passed from an affected parent to a child through changed genes. If you're concerned about a family history of Angelman syndrome or if you have a child with the condition, seek medical advice. Your healthcare professional or a genetic counselor can help you plan future pregnancies.
Condition name:Angina
Overview of Angina:
Angina (an-JIE-nuh or AN-juh-nuh) is a type of chest pain caused by reduced blood flow to the heart. Angina is a symptom of coronary artery disease.
Angina also is called angina pectoris.
Angina is often described as squeezing, pressure, heaviness, tightness or pain in the chest. It may feel like a heavy weight lying on the chest. Angina may be a new pain that needs to be checked by a healthcare professional, or it may be recurring pain that goes away with treatment.
Angina is relatively common. But some people may not be able to tell it apart from other types of chest pain, such as heartburn. If you have unexplained chest pain, get medical help right away.
Home Remedies for Angina:
Heart disease is often the cause of angina. Making lifestyle changes to keep the heart healthy is an important part of angina treatment. Try these strategies:
Don't smoke. Quitting smoking is the most important thing you can do to improve heart health. Also, avoid being around secondhand smoke. If you need to quit, ask your care team for help.
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise helps improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate or vigorous physical activity five or more days a week. If you've had a heart attack or heart surgery, you may have activity limits. Ask your healthcare professional what's best for you.
Manage weight. Too much weight strains the heart. Being overweight increases the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes. Ask your healthcare team what the best weight is for you.
Eat a healthy diet. Avoid or limit foods with saturated fat, trans fats, salt and sugar. Choose whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean protein, such as fish and beans.
Manage other health conditions. Ask your care team how often you need to have your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels checked.
Control stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress.
Avoid or limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with your care team about strategies that might help.
Symptoms for Angina :
Angina symptoms include chest pain and discomfort. The chest pain or discomfort may feel like:
Burning.
Fullness.
Pressure.
Squeezing.
Pain also may be felt in the arms, neck, jaw, shoulder or back.
Other symptoms of angina include:
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Nausea.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
The severity, duration and type of angina can vary. New or different symptoms may signal unstable angina or a heart attack.
Any new or worsening angina symptoms need to be checked immediately by a healthcare professional. The healthcare team can determine whether you have stable or unstable angina.
Causes for Angina :
Angina is caused by reduced blood flow to the heart muscle. Blood carries oxygen, which the heart muscle needs to survive. When the heart muscle isn't getting enough oxygen, it causes a condition called ischemia.
The most common cause of reduced blood flow to the heart muscle is coronary artery disease (CAD). The heart arteries, called the coronary arteries, can become narrowed by fatty deposits called plaques. This condition is called atherosclerosis.
Plaque in a blood vessel may rupture or cause a blood clot. These events can quickly block or reduce flow through a narrowed artery. This can suddenly and severely decrease blood flow to the heart muscle.
The heart muscle may still be able to work during times of low oxygen demand without triggering angina symptoms. An example is when resting. But when the demand for oxygen goes up, such as when exercising, angina can result.
Risk Factors for Angina:
The following things may increase the risk of angina:
Increasing age. Angina is most common in adults age 60 and older.
Family history of heart disease. Tell your healthcare team if your mother, father or any siblings have or had heart disease or a heart attack.
Tobacco use. Smoking, chewing tobacco and long-term exposure to secondhand smoke can damage the lining of the arteries. Artery damage can let deposits of cholesterol collect and block blood flow.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease can cause angina.
High blood pressure. Over time, high blood pressure damages arteries by speeding up the hardening of the arteries.
High cholesterol or triglycerides. Too much bad cholesterol, called low-density lipoprotein (LDL), in the blood can cause arteries to narrow. A high LDL level increases the risk of angina and heart attack. A high level of triglycerides in the blood also is unhealthy.
Other health conditions. Chronic kidney disease, peripheral artery disease, metabolic syndrome or a history of stroke increases the risk of angina.
Not enough exercise. An inactive lifestyle raises the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and obesity. Talk with your healthcare team about the type and amount of exercise that's best for you.
Obesity. Obesity is a risk factor for heart disease, which can cause angina. Being overweight makes the heart work harder to supply blood to the body.
Emotional stress. Too much stress and anger can raise blood pressure. Rushes of hormones made by the body during stress can narrow the arteries and worsen angina.
Medicines. Some medicines tighten blood vessels, which may trigger Prinzmetal angina. An example is certain migraine medicines.
Drug misuse. Cocaine and other stimulants can cause blood vessel spasms and trigger angina.
Cold temperatures. Exposure to cold temperatures can trigger Prinzmetal angina.
Complications for Angina:
The chest pain that occurs with angina can make doing some activities, such as walking, uncomfortable. However, the most dangerous complication is a heart attack.
Preventions for Angina
You can help prevent angina by following the same lifestyle changes that are used to treat angina:
Avoid or limit alcohol.
Don't smoke.
Eat a healthy diet.
Exercise regularly.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage other health conditions related to heart disease.
Reduce stress.
Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep a day.
Also get recommended vaccines to avoid heart complications.
Condition name:Anorexia nervosa
Overview of Anorexia nervosa:
Anorexia (an-o-REK-see-uh) nervosa, often simply called anorexia, is a treatable eating disorder in which people have a low body weight based on personal weight history. Although many people with anorexia look very thin, some may not look thin and others may look overweight. But they've actually lost weight or failed to gain needed weight.
People who have anorexia often have a strong fear of gaining weight and may think they're overweight, even when they're thin. To prevent weight gain or continue to lose weight, people with anorexia often limit the amount or type of food they eat. They place a high value on controlling their weight and shape and use extreme efforts that can greatly harm their lives.
Anorexia can cause changes in the brain due to very poor nutrition, also called malnutrition. This is when people don't get the nutrients that their bodies need to stay healthy. So it's not a choice to continue the risky and damaging behavior.
If left untreated, weight loss can get to a point where people with anorexia are at high risk of serious physical harm or death. Anorexia has the second-highest death rate of any mental illness, surpassed only by opioid overdoses. Most deaths related to anorexia stem from heart conditions and suicide.
Anorexia, like other eating disorders, can take over people's lives and be very hard to overcome. Because it's related to changes in the brain, anorexia behaviors are not choices, and the illness is not really about food or looking a certain way. With proven treatment, people with anorexia can return to a healthy weight, develop more-balanced eating habits, and reverse some of anorexia's serious medical and mental health complications.
Home Remedies for Anorexia nervosa:
When you have anorexia nervosa, it can be hard to take care of yourself properly. In addition to professional treatment, follow these steps:
Stay with your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions and try not to stray from meal plans, even if they make you uncomfortable.
Talk to your healthcare professional about proper vitamin and mineral supplements. Many people get their vitamins and minerals from food. But if you're not eating well, your body probably isn't getting all the nutrients it needs, such as vitamin D or iron.
Don't isolate yourself from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Understand that they have your best interests at heart.
Resist urges to weigh yourself outside of medical appointments or check yourself in the mirror frequently. These actions may do nothing but fuel your drive to keep unhealthy habits.
Symptoms for Anorexia nervosa :
The physical and behavioral symptoms of anorexia nervosa relate to how starvation affects the brain. It may be hard to notice symptoms because what is seen as a low body weight differs for each person. Some people with anorexia may not look very thin. Also, people often hide their thinness, eating habits or physical problems.
Causes for Anorexia nervosa :
The causes of anorexia nervosa aren't known. As with many diseases, it's probably a mix of factors:
Genetics. Although it isn't yet clear which genes are involved, genetic changes may make you more likely to develop anorexia. That involves having genetic traits that include feeling the need to be perfect or being very sensitive.
Mental health. People with eating disorders sometimes have obsessive-compulsive personality traits that make it easier to stick to strict diets and not eat, even though they're hungry. They also may try to be perfect in everything they do.
Environmental. Modern Western culture puts a lot of focus on being thin. Social media plays a big role. Peer pressure may cause you to want to be thin, lean or muscular. A constant push to eat a healthy diet could lead to very strict eating habits. These habits could turn into eating disorders.
Risk Factors for Anorexia nervosa:
Anorexia nervosa affects all gender identities, races, ages, incomes and body types.
Anorexia also is more common among teenagers, although people of any age can develop this eating disorder. Teens may be more at risk because of all the changes their bodies go through during puberty. They also may face more peer pressure and be more sensitive to criticism or even casual comments about weight or body shape.
Certain factors raise the risk of anorexia and other eating disorders, including:
Family history. If you have a first-degree relative — a parent, sibling or child — who had anorexia, you have a higher risk of developing it.
A history of weight bullying. People who have been teased or bullied about their weight are more likely to develop eating disorders. This includes people with peers, family members, coaches and others who have shamed them for their weight.
A history of dieting. Dieting behaviors raise the risk of an eating disorder. People who are always dieting and whose weight is always going up and down as they get on and off new diets could develop an eating disorder.
Transitions. Major changes can bring emotional stress and raise the risk of anorexia. Such changes include a new school, home or job, as well as a relationship breakup or the death or illness of a loved one.
Complications for Anorexia nervosa:
Anorexia nervosa can have many complications. At its most severe, it can be fatal. Death may happen suddenly — even if you aren't visibly underweight. Irregular heart rhythms, also known as arrhythmias, can lead to death. Also, an imbalance of electrolytes — minerals such as sodium, potassium and calcium that maintain the balance of fluids in the body — also can lead to death.
Other complications of anorexia include:
Anemia.
Other heart conditions, such as mitral valve prolapse or heart failure. Mitral valve prolapse happens when the valve between the heart's upper and lower left chambers doesn't close properly.
Bone loss, also known as osteoporosis, which can raise the risk of fractures.
Loss of muscle.
Stomach problems, such as constipation, bloating or nausea.
Kidney problems.
In females, anorexia can lead to having no period. In males, it can decrease testosterone.
If you become severely malnourished, every organ system in your body can be damaged. This damage may not be fully reversible, even when the anorexia is under control.
In addition to physical complications, you also may have other mental health symptoms and conditions, including:
Depression and other mood disorders.
Anxiety.
Personality disorders.
Obsessive-compulsive disorders.
Alcohol and substance misuse.
Self-injury, suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts or suicide.
Preventions for Anorexia nervosa
There's no guaranteed way to prevent anorexia nervosa. Primary healthcare professionals, including pediatricians, family medicine professionals and internal medicine professionals, may be in a good position to see early signs that could lead to anorexia. For instance, they can ask questions about eating habits and satisfaction with appearance during routine medical appointments. This could open a discussion about how this relates to health and where to get help if needed.
If you notice that people have dieting habits that seem too rigid, or they're unhappy with their appearance, think about talking to them about these issues. Although you may not be able to prevent an eating disorder from starting, you can talk about your concerns and offer to assist them in finding help if needed.
Examples of organizations that offer support for caregivers, friends and family members of people with eating disorders include the National Eating Disorders Association (NEDA) and Families Empowered and Supporting Treatment for Eating Disorders (F.E.A.S.T.).
Condition name:Anorgasmia in women
Overview of Anorgasmia in women:
Anorgasmia is delayed, infrequent or absent orgasms — or significantly less-intense orgasms — after sexual arousal and adequate sexual stimulation. Women who have problems with orgasms and who feel significant distress about those problems may be diagnosed with anorgasmia.
Among all women, the frequency and intensity of orgasms vary. Also, for any individual, orgasms can be different from one time to the next. The type and amount of stimulation needed to have an orgasm also varies.
Multiple factors may lead to anorgasmia. These include relationship or intimacy issues, cultural factors, physical or medical conditions, and medicines. Treatments can include education about sexual stimulation, sexual enhancement devices, individual or couple therapy, and medicines.
Female orgasmic disorder is another term for the spectrum of problems with orgasms. The word "anorgasmia" specifically refers to not being able to have an orgasm, but it's also used as shorthand for female orgasmic disorders.
There are no home remedies available for Anorgasmia in women in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Anorgasmia in women :
An orgasm is a peak feeling of intense pleasure in response to stimulating sexual activity.
Vaginal penetration during sex indirectly stimulates the clitoris. But this may not be enough stimulation for orgasm. Many women may also need direct manual or oral stimulation of the clitoris to reach orgasm.
Anorgasmia, or female orgasmic disorder, is defined as experiencing any of these in a significant way:
Delayed orgasm.
Absence of orgasm.
Fewer orgasms.
Less-intense orgasms.
Anorgasmia can also be:
Lifelong, if you've never had an orgasm.
Acquired, if you have new problems with having orgasms.
Situational, if you have problems with orgasm only in certain situations, with certain kinds of stimulation or with certain partners.
Generalized, if you have problems with orgasm in any situation.
Women who don't always reach orgasm during sexual encounters may not find it distressing. In that case, the lack of an orgasm is not considered a disorder.
Causes for Anorgasmia in women :
Sexual arousal and orgasms are complex reactions to various physical, emotional, sensory and psychological factors. Difficulties in any of these areas can affect your ability to have an orgasm.
Risk Factors for Anorgasmia in women:
Risk factors linked to having trouble with orgasm include:
Low education level.
Low income.
Poor health.
Depression and other mental health conditions.
History of trauma, such as sexual abuse.
There are no Complications available for Anorgasmia in women in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Anorgasmia in women in the knowledge baseCondition name:Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele)
Overview of Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele):
Anterior vaginal prolapse, also known as a cystocele (SIS-toe-seel) or a prolapsed bladder, is when the bladder drops from its usual position in the pelvis and pushes on the wall of the vagina.
The organs of the pelvis — including the bladder, uterus and intestines — are typically held in place by the muscles and connective tissues of the pelvic floor. Anterior prolapse occurs when the pelvic floor becomes weak or if too much pressure is put on the pelvic floor. This can happen over time, during vaginal childbirth or with chronic constipation, violent coughing or heavy lifting.
Anterior prolapse is treatable. For a mild or moderate prolapse, nonsurgical treatment is often effective. In more severe cases, surgery may be necessary to keep the vagina and other pelvic organs in their proper positions.
Home Remedies for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele):
Kegel exercises are exercises you can do at home to strengthen your pelvic floor muscles. A strengthened pelvic floor provides better support for your pelvic organs and relief from symptoms associated with anterior prolapse.
To perform Kegel exercises, follow these steps:
Tighten (contract) your pelvic floor muscles â€” the muscles you use to stop urinating.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, and then relax for five seconds. (If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.)
Work up to holding the contraction for 10 seconds at a time.
Do three sets of 10 repetitions of the exercises each day.
Ask your doctor for instructions on how to properly perform a Kegel, and for feedback on whether you're using the right muscles. Once you've learned the proper method, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether you're sitting at your desk or relaxing on the couch.
To help keep an anterior prolapse from progressing, you can also try these lifestyle modifications:
Treat and prevent constipation. High-fiber foods can help.
Avoid heavy lifting, and lift correctly. When lifting, use your legs instead of your waist or back.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis, and don't smoke.
Manage your weight. Talk to your doctor to determine your ideal weight and get advice on weight-loss strategies, if you need them.
Symptoms for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele) :
In mild cases of anterior prolapse, you may not notice any signs or symptoms. When signs and symptoms occur, they may include:
A feeling of fullness or pressure in your pelvis and vagina
In some cases, a bulge of tissue in your vagina that you can see or feel
Increased pelvic pressure when you strain, cough, bear down or lift
Problems urinating, including difficulty starting a urine stream, the feeling that you haven't completely emptied your bladder after urinating, feeling a frequent need to urinate or leaking urine (urinary incontinence)
Signs and symptoms often are especially noticeable after standing for long periods of time and may go away when you lie down.
Causes for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele) :
Your pelvic floor consists of muscles, ligaments and connective tissues that support your bladder and other pelvic organs. The connections between your pelvic organs and ligaments can weaken over time, or as a result of trauma from childbirth or chronic straining. When this happens, your bladder can slip down lower than usual and bulge into your vagina (anterior prolapse).
Causes of stress to the pelvic floor include:
Pregnancy and vaginal childbirth
Being overweight or obese
Repeated heavy lifting
Straining with bowel movements
A chronic cough or bronchitis
Risk Factors for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele):
These factors may increase your risk of anterior prolapse:
Pregnancy and childbirth. Women who have had a vaginal or instrument-assisted delivery, multiple pregnancies, or whose infants had a high birth weight have a higher risk of anterior prolapse.
Aging. Your risk of anterior prolapse increases as you age. This is especially true after menopause, when your body's production of estrogen — which helps keep the pelvic floor strong — decreases.
Hysterectomy. Having your uterus removed may contribute to weakness in your pelvic floor, but this is not always the case.
Genetics. Some women are born with weaker connective tissues, making them more susceptible to anterior prolapse.
Obesity. Women who are overweight or obese are at higher risk of anterior prolapse.
There are no Complications available for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Anterior vaginal prolapse (cystocele) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Antisocial personality disorder
Overview of Antisocial personality disorder:
Antisocial personality disorder, sometimes called sociopathy, is a mental health condition in which a person consistently shows no regard for right and wrong and ignores the rights and feelings of others. People with antisocial personality disorder tend to purposely make others angry or upset and manipulate or treat others harshly or with cruel indifference. They lack remorse or do not regret their behavior.
People with antisocial personality disorder often violate the law, becoming criminals. They may lie, behave violently or impulsively, and have problems with drug and alcohol use. They have difficulty consistently meeting responsibilities related to family, work or school.
There are no home remedies available for Antisocial personality disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Antisocial personality disorder :
Symptoms of antisocial personality disorder include repeatedly:
Ignoring right and wrong.
Telling lies to take advantage of others.
Not being sensitive to or respectful of others.
Using charm or wit to manipulate others for personal gain or pleasure.
Having a sense of superiority and being extremely opinionated.
Having problems with the law, including criminal behavior.
Being hostile, aggressive, violent or threatening to others.
Feeling no guilt about harming others.
Doing dangerous things with no regard for the safety of self or others.
Being irresponsible and failing to fulfill work or financial responsibilities.
Adults with antisocial personality disorder usually show symptoms of conduct disorder before the age of 15. Symptoms of conduct disorder include serious, ongoing behavior problems, such as:
Aggression toward people and animals.
Destruction of property.
Lying and dishonesty.
Theft.
Serious violation of rules.
Antisocial personality disorder is considered a lifelong condition. But in some people, certain symptoms ― particularly destructive and criminal behavior ― may decrease over time. It's not clear whether this decrease is a result of the effect aging has on their mind and body, an increased awareness of the impact that antisocial behavior has had on their life, or other factors.
Causes for Antisocial personality disorder :
Personality is the combination of thoughts, emotions and behaviors that makes everyone unique. It's the way people view, understand and relate to the outside world, as well as how they see themselves. Personality forms during childhood. It's likely shaped by inherited genes as well as life situations and experiences.
The exact cause of antisocial personality disorder isn't known, but:
Genes may make you vulnerable to developing antisocial personality disorder — and life situations, especially neglect and abuse, may trigger its development.
Changes in the way the brain functions may have resulted during brain development.
Risk Factors for Antisocial personality disorder:
Certain factors seem to increase the risk of developing antisocial personality disorder, such as:
Diagnosis of childhood conduct disorder.
Family history of antisocial personality disorder or other personality disorders or mental health conditions.
Experiencing abuse or neglect during childhood.
Unstable or violent family life during childhood.
Men are at greater risk of having antisocial personality disorder than women are.
Complications for Antisocial personality disorder:
Complications and problems resulting from antisocial personality disorder may include:
Spouse abuse or child abuse or neglect.
Problems with alcohol or drugs.
Being in jail or prison.
Attempting suicide or trying to kill someone else.
Having other mental health conditions such as depression or anxiety.
Financial, educational or social problems.
Dying early, usually because of violence.
Preventions for Antisocial personality disorder
There's no sure way to prevent antisocial personality disorder from developing in those at risk. Because antisocial behavior is thought to have its roots in childhood, parents, teachers and pediatricians may be able to see early warning signs. It may help to try to identify those most at risk, such as children who show signs of conduct disorder, and then offer early intervention.
Condition name:Anxiety disorders
Overview of Anxiety disorders:
Experiencing occasional anxiety is a normal part of life. However, people with anxiety disorders frequently have intense, excessive and persistent worry and fear about everyday situations. Often, anxiety disorders involve repeated episodes of sudden feelings of intense anxiety and fear or terror that reach a peak within minutes (panic attacks).
These feelings of anxiety and panic interfere with daily activities, are difficult to control, are out of proportion to the actual danger and can last a long time. You may avoid places or situations to prevent these feelings. Symptoms may start during childhood or the teen years and continue into adulthood.
Examples of anxiety disorders include generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety disorder (social phobia), specific phobias and separation anxiety disorder. You can have more than one anxiety disorder. Sometimes anxiety results from a medical condition that needs treatment.
Whatever form of anxiety you have, treatment can help.
Home Remedies for Anxiety disorders:
While most people with anxiety disorders need psychotherapy or medications to get anxiety under control, lifestyle changes also can make a difference. Here's what you can do:
Keep physically active. Develop a routine so that you're physically active most days of the week. Exercise is a powerful stress reducer. It may improve your mood and help you stay healthy. Start out slowly and gradually increase the amount and intensity of your activities.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. These substances can cause or worsen anxiety. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Quit smoking and cut back or quit drinking caffeinated beverages. Both nicotine and caffeine can worsen anxiety.
Use stress management and relaxation techniques. Visualization techniques, meditation and yoga are examples of relaxation techniques that can ease anxiety.
Make sleep a priority. Do what you can to make sure you're getting enough sleep to feel rested. If you aren't sleeping well, see your doctor.
Eat healthy. Healthy eating â€” such as focusing on vegetables, fruits, whole grains and fish â€” may be linked to reduced anxiety, but more research is needed.
Symptoms for Anxiety disorders :
Common anxiety signs and symptoms include:
Feeling nervous, restless or tense
Having a sense of impending danger, panic or doom
Having an increased heart rate
Breathing rapidly (hyperventilation)
Sweating
Trembling
Feeling weak or tired
Trouble concentrating or thinking about anything other than the present worry
Having trouble sleeping
Experiencing gastrointestinal (GI) problems
Having difficulty controlling worry
Having the urge to avoid things that trigger anxiety
Several types of anxiety disorders exist:
Agoraphobia (ag-uh-ruh-FOE-be-uh) is a type of anxiety disorder in which you fear and often avoid places or situations that might cause you to panic and make you feel trapped, helpless or embarrassed.
Anxiety disorder due to a medical condition includes symptoms of intense anxiety or panic that are directly caused by a physical health problem.
Generalized anxiety disorder includes persistent and excessive anxiety and worry about activities or events — even ordinary, routine issues. The worry is out of proportion to the actual circumstance, is difficult to control and affects how you feel physically. It often occurs along with other anxiety disorders or depression.
Panic disorder involves repeated episodes of sudden feelings of intense anxiety and fear or terror that reach a peak within minutes (panic attacks). You may have feelings of impending doom, shortness of breath, chest pain, or a rapid, fluttering or pounding heart (heart palpitations). These panic attacks may lead to worrying about them happening again or avoiding situations in which they've occurred.
Selective mutism is a consistent failure of children to speak in certain situations, such as school, even when they can speak in other situations, such as at home with close family members. This can interfere with school, work and social functioning.
Separation anxiety disorder is a childhood disorder characterized by anxiety that's excessive for the child's developmental level and related to separation from parents or others who have parental roles.
Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) involves high levels of anxiety, fear and avoidance of social situations due to feelings of embarrassment, self-consciousness and concern about being judged or viewed negatively by others.
Specific phobias are characterized by major anxiety when you're exposed to a specific object or situation and a desire to avoid it. Phobias provoke panic attacks in some people.
Substance-induced anxiety disorder is characterized by symptoms of intense anxiety or panic that are a direct result of misusing drugs, taking medications, being exposed to a toxic substance or withdrawal from drugs.
Other specified anxiety disorder and unspecified anxiety disorder are terms for anxiety or phobias that don't meet the exact criteria for any other anxiety disorders but are significant enough to be distressing and disruptive.
Causes for Anxiety disorders :
The causes of anxiety disorders aren't fully understood. Life experiences such as traumatic events appear to trigger anxiety disorders in people who are already prone to anxiety. Inherited traits also can be a factor.
Risk Factors for Anxiety disorders:
These factors may increase your risk of developing an anxiety disorder:
Trauma. Children who endured abuse or trauma or witnessed traumatic events are at higher risk of developing an anxiety disorder at some point in life. Adults who experience a traumatic event also can develop anxiety disorders.
Stress due to an illness. Having a health condition or serious illness can cause significant worry about issues such as your treatment and your future.
Stress buildup. A big event or a buildup of smaller stressful life situations may trigger excessive anxiety — for example, a death in the family, work stress or ongoing worry about finances.
Personality. People with certain personality types are more prone to anxiety disorders than others are.
Other mental health disorders. People with other mental health disorders, such as depression, often also have an anxiety disorder.
Having blood relatives with an anxiety disorder. Anxiety disorders can run in families.
Drugs or alcohol. Drug or alcohol use or misuse or withdrawal can cause or worsen anxiety.
Complications for Anxiety disorders:
Having an anxiety disorder does more than make you worry. It can also lead to, or worsen, other mental and physical conditions, such as:
Depression (which often occurs with an anxiety disorder) or other mental health disorders
Substance misuse
Trouble sleeping (insomnia)
Digestive or bowel problems
Headaches and chronic pain
Social isolation
Problems functioning at school or work
Poor quality of life
Suicide
Preventions for Anxiety disorders
There's no way to predict for certain what will cause someone to develop an anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you're anxious:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Stay active. Participate in activities that you enjoy and that make you feel good about yourself. Enjoy social interaction and caring relationships, which can lessen your worries.
Avoid alcohol or drug use. Alcohol and drug use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Condition name:Aortic aneurysm
Overview of Aortic aneurysm:
An aortic aneurysm is a bulge that occurs in the wall of the body's main artery, called the aorta. The aorta carries blood from the heart to the body. Aortic aneurysms can occur anywhere in the aorta. They may be tube shaped or round.
Aortic aneurysms include:
Abdominal aortic aneurysm. An abdominal aortic aneurysm occurs along the part of the aorta that passes through the belly area.
Thoracic aortic aneurysm. A thoracic aortic aneurysm occurs along the part of the aorta that passes through the chest cavity.
Some people may have both types of aortic aneurysms.
Having an aortic aneurysm increases the risk of developing a tear in the inner layer of the wall of the aorta. This tear is called an aortic dissection.
There are no home remedies available for Aortic aneurysm in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Aortic aneurysm :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Aortic aneurysm in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Aortic aneurysm in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Aortic aneurysm in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Aortic aneurysm in the knowledge baseCondition name:Aortic valve disease
Overview of Aortic valve disease:
Aortic valve disease is a type of heart valve disease. In this condition, the valve between the lower left heart chamber and the body's main artery doesn't work properly.
The aortic valve helps keep blood flowing in the correct direction through the heart. A damaged or diseased aortic valve can affect blood flow to the rest of the heart and body.
Aortic valve disease includes:
Aortic valve stenosis. Each heart valve has flaps of tissue that open and close once per heartbeat. The flaps also are called cusps. Sometimes the aortic valve flaps become thick and stiff, or they connect together. These problems cause the valve opening to become narrow. The narrowed valve reduces or blocks blood flow from the heart to the rest of the body.
Aortic valve regurgitation. The aortic valve doesn't close properly, causing blood to flow backward into the left lower heart chamber.
A person may be born with aortic valve disease. This is called a congenital heart defect. Sometimes aortic valve disease occurs later in life due to other health conditions.
Treatment for aortic valve disease depends on the type and severity of disease. Some people may need surgery to repair or replace the aortic valve.
Home Remedies for Aortic valve disease:
After diagnosis or treatment of aortic valve disease, you'll need regular health checkups. Your health care team may suggest making heart-healthy lifestyle changes. Try these steps:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fats and excess salt and sugar.
Maintain a healthy weight. Ask your health care team what a healthy weight is for you.
Get regular exercise. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day. Check with your health care team before starting a new exercise routine.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to tame stress.
Do not smoke. If you need help quitting smoking or using tobacco, ask a health care professional about resources to help. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Pregnancy
If you have aortic valve disease, it's important to talk with a health care professional before becoming pregnant. Careful and regular checkups are needed if you have aortic valve disease during pregnancy. Your health care team can discuss with you which medicines are safe to use during pregnancy. Your health care team also can determine whether valve disease treatment is needed prior to pregnancy.
Health care professionals may recommend that people with severe heart valve disease avoid pregnancy to avoid the risk of complications.
Symptoms for Aortic valve disease :
Some people with aortic valve disease may not notice symptoms for many years. Symptoms of aortic valve disease may include:
Chest pain or tightness.
Dizziness.
Fainting.
Fatigue after activity or having less ability to be active.
Irregular heartbeat.
Shortness of breath, particularly during vigorous activity or when lying down.
Not eating enough. This is mainly seen in children with aortic valve stenosis.
Not gaining enough weight. This is mainly seen in children with aortic valve stenosis.
Causes for Aortic valve disease :
Aortic valve disease may be caused by a heart problem present at birth, called a congenital heart defect. Other causes of aortic valve disease later in life include:
Age-related changes to the heart.
Infections.
High blood pressure.
Injury to the heart.
To better understand the causes of aortic valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart valves typically work.
The heart has four valves that keep blood flowing in the correct direction. These valves are:
Aortic valve.
Mitral valve.
Tricuspid valve.
Pulmonary valve.
Each valve has flaps, also called cusps or leaflets, that open and close once during each heartbeat.
In aortic valve disease, the valve between the lower left heart chamber and the body's main artery doesn't work properly. The lower left heart chamber is called the left ventricle. The body's main artery is called the aorta.
The valve may become thick and stiff or the valve may not close properly.
Risk Factors for Aortic valve disease:
Many things can raise the risk of aortic valve disease, including:
Older age. Calcium can build up on the aortic valve as people age, causing the aortic valve to stiffen and become narrow.
Heart valve problems present at birth, called congenital heart defects. Some people are born with a missing, extra or fused valve flap. This increases the risk of aortic valve regurgitation.
Rheumatic fever. This complication of strep throat can cause aortic stenosis, a type of heart valve disease. If you have heart valve disease due to rheumatic fever, it's called rheumatic heart disease. If not, it's called nonrheumatic heart disease.
Inflammation of the lining of the heart's chambers and valves, called endocarditis. This life-threatening condition is usually caused by infection. It can damage the aortic valve.
History of radiation therapy to the chest. Some types of cancer are treated with radiation therapy. Symptoms of heart valve disease may not be noticed until many years after radiation therapy is received.
Other health conditions. Chronic kidney disease, lupus and Marfan syndrome, a connective tissue disease, can increase the risk of aortic stenosis or regurgitation.
Complications for Aortic valve disease:
Potential complications of aortic valve disease may include:
Blood clots.
Stroke.
Heart failure.
Heart rhythm problems, called arrhythmias.
Death due to sudden cardiac arrest.
Proper diagnosis and treatment can help reduce the risk of complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Aortic valve disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Aortic valve regurgitation
Overview of Aortic valve regurgitation:
Aortic valve regurgitation — also called aortic regurgitation — is a type of heart valve disease. The valve between the lower left heart chamber and the body's main artery doesn't close tightly. As a result, some of the blood pumped out of the heart's main pumping chamber, called the left ventricle, leaks backward.
The leakage may prevent the heart from doing a good enough job of pumping blood to the rest of the body. You may feel tired and short of breath.
Aortic valve regurgitation can develop suddenly or over many years. Once the condition becomes severe, surgery often is needed to repair or replace the valve.
Home Remedies for Aortic valve regurgitation:
While lifestyle changes can't prevent or treat your condition, your health care team might suggest that you practice some heart-healthy habits. These may include:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Enjoy a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Stay away from saturated and trans fats and excess salt and sugar.
Stay at a healthy weight. Aim to keep a healthy weight. If you're overweight or obese, your health care team may recommend that you lose weight. Ask what goal weight is healthy for you.
Get regular exercise. Aim to include about 30 minutes of physical activity, such as brisk walks, into your daily fitness routine. Ask your care team for advice before you start to exercise, especially if you're thinking about playing competitive sports.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask your care team about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Control high blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure increases the risk of serious health problems. Get your blood pressure checked at least every two years if you're 18 or older. If you have risk factors for heart disease or are over age 40, you may need more-frequent checks.
Get a cholesterol test. Get your first cholesterol test when you're in your 20s and then another at least every 4 to 6 years. Some people may need to start testing earlier or have more-frequent checks.
Manage diabetes. If you have diabetes, tight blood sugar control can help keep your heart healthy.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with your health care team about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy and aortic valve regurgitation
Careful and regular checkups are needed for those who have heart valve disease, including aortic valve regurgitation, during pregnancy. If you have a severe heart valve condition, you might be told not to get pregnant to reduce the risk of complications.
Symptoms for Aortic valve regurgitation :
Most often, aortic valve regurgitation develops over time. You may have no symptoms for years. You might not realize that you have the condition. But sometimes, aortic valve regurgitation occurs suddenly. Usually, this is due to an infection of the valve.
As aortic valve regurgitation becomes worse, symptoms may include:
Shortness of breath with exercise or when lying down.
Tiredness and weakness, especially when being more active than usual.
Irregular heartbeat.
Lightheadedness or fainting.
Pain, discomfort or tightness in the chest, which often gets worse during exercise.
Sensations of a rapid, fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Swollen ankles and feet.
Causes for Aortic valve regurgitation :
The aortic valve is one of four valves that control blood flow through the heart. It separates the heart's main pumping chamber, called the left ventricle, and the body's main artery, called the aorta. The aortic valve has flaps, also called cusps or leaflets, that open and close once during each heartbeat.
In aortic valve regurgitation, the valve doesn't close properly. This causes blood to leak back into the lower left heart chamber, called the left ventricle. As a result, the chamber holds more blood. This could cause it to get larger and thicken.
At first, the larger left ventricle helps maintain good blood flow with more force. But eventually, the heart becomes weak.
Any condition that damages the aortic valve can cause aortic valve regurgitation. Causes may include:
Heart valve disease present at birth. Some people are born with an aortic valve that has only two cusps, called a bicuspid valve. Others are born with connected cusps rather than the typical three separate ones. Sometimes the valve may have only one cusp, called a unicuspid valve. Other times, there are four cusps, called a quadricuspid valve.
Having a parent or sibling with a bicuspid valve raises your risk of the condition. But you can have a bicuspid valve even if you don't have a family history of the condition.
Narrowing of the aortic valve, called aortic stenosis. Calcium deposits can build up on the aortic valve as you age. The buildup causes the aortic valve to stiffen and become narrow. It prevents the valve from opening properly. Aortic stenosis also may prevent the valve from closing properly.
Inflammation of the inner lining of the heart's chambers and valves. This life-threatening condition also is called endocarditis. It's usually caused by an infection. It can damage the aortic valve.
Rheumatic fever. This condition was once a common childhood illness in the United States. Strep throat can cause it. Rheumatic fever can cause the aortic valve to become stiff and narrow, in turn causing blood to leak. If you have an irregular heart valve due to rheumatic fever, it's called rheumatic heart disease.
Other health conditions. Other rare conditions can cause the aorta to get bigger and damage the aortic valve. These include a connective tissue disease called Marfan syndrome. Some immune system conditions, such as lupus, also can lead to aortic valve regurgitation.
Tear or injury of the body's main artery. The body's main artery is the aorta. A traumatic chest injury may damage the aorta and cause aortic regurgitation. So might a tear in the inner layer of the aorta, called an aortic dissection.
Risk Factors for Aortic valve regurgitation:
Things that raise the risk of aortic valve regurgitation include:
Older age.
Heart problems present at birth, also called congenital heart defects.
History of infections that can affect the heart.
Certain conditions passed down through families that can affect the heart, such as Marfan syndrome.
Other types of heart valve disease, such as aortic valve stenosis.
High blood pressure.
The condition also can happen without any known risk factors.
Complications for Aortic valve regurgitation:
Complications of aortic valve regurgitation can include:
Fainting or feeling lightheaded.
Heart failure.
Certain heart infections such as endocarditis.
Heart rhythm problems, called arrhythmias.
Death.
Preventions for Aortic valve regurgitation
If you have any type of heart disease, get regular health checkups.
If you have a parent, child or sibling with a bicuspid aortic valve, you should have an imaging test called an echocardiogram. This can check for aortic valve regurgitation. Early diagnosis of heart valve disease, such as aortic valve regurgitation, is important. Doing so may make the condition easier to treat.
Also, take steps to prevent conditions that can raise the risk of aortic valve regurgitation. For example:
Get a health checkup if you have a severe sore throat. Untreated strep throat can lead to rheumatic fever. Strep throat is treated with medicines that fight bacteria, called antibiotics.
Check your blood pressure regularly. Have your blood pressure checked at least every two years starting at age 18. Some people need more-frequent checks.
Condition name:Aortic valve stenosis
Overview of Aortic valve stenosis:
Aortic valve stenosis is a type of heart valve disease, also called valvular heart disease. The aortic valve is between the lower left heart chamber and the body's main artery, called the aorta. In aortic valve stenosis, the valve is narrowed and doesn't open fully. This reduces or blocks blood flow from the heart to the aorta and to the rest of the body.
Treatment of aortic stenosis depends on how severe the condition is. Treatment may include surgery to fix or replace the valve. Without treatment, severe aortic valve stenosis can lead to life-threatening complications.
Home Remedies for Aortic valve stenosis:
Try these tips to help prevent or slow aortic valve stenosis and other types of heart disease.
Do not smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats.
Keep a healthy weight. Lose weight if you are overweight or have obesity. Losing just a few pounds can help reduce risk factors for heart disease. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Get regular exercise. Exercise helps manage weight and control risk factors for heart disease. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Manage stress. Learn ways to help reduce emotional stress. Some ideas are to get more exercise, practice mindfulness or connect with others in support groups.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
If you have aortic valve stenosis, your healthcare team may recommend that you limit strenuous activity to avoid overworking your heart.
Pregnancy and aortic valve disease
If you have aortic stenosis and are considering pregnancy, it's important to talk with your healthcare team about your plans. Together, you can talk about the safety of medicines and whether you need treatment for aortic valve stenosis before getting pregnant.
Those with heart valve disease such as aortic valve stenosis usually require close checkups by a healthcare professional during pregnancy. If you have severe aortic stenosis, healthcare professionals may tell you not to get pregnant due to the risk of complications.
Symptoms for Aortic valve stenosis :
Aortic valve stenosis ranges from mild to severe. Symptoms generally happen when the valve is very narrowed. Some people with aortic valve stenosis may not have symptoms for many years.
Symptoms of aortic valve stenosis may include:
Chest pain or tightness with activity.
Feeling faint or dizzy or fainting with activity.
Shortness of breath, especially with activity.
Fatigue, especially during times of increased activity.
Rapid, fluttering heartbeat.
Children with aortic valve stenosis may have other symptoms such as:
Not eating enough.
Not gaining enough weight.
Aortic valve stenosis may lead to heart failure. Heart failure symptoms include extreme tiredness, shortness of breath, and swollen ankles and feet.
Causes for Aortic valve stenosis :
To understand the causes of aortic valve stenosis, it may help to know how the heart and heart valves typically work.
The heart has four valves that keep blood flowing in the correct way:
Aortic valve.
Mitral valve.
Tricuspid valve.
Pulmonary valve.
Each valve has flaps, also called cusps, that open and close once during each heartbeat. Sometimes, the valves don't open or close properly. If a valve doesn't fully open or close, blood flow is reduced or blocked.
In aortic valve stenosis, the valve between the lower left heart chamber, called the left ventricle, and the body's main artery, called the aorta, is narrowed and doesn't open completely. This narrowing is called stenosis.
When the aortic valve opening is narrowed, the heart must work harder to pump enough blood to the body. The extra work can cause the lower left heart chamber to get thick. Eventually the heart may become weak.
Aortic valve stenosis causes include:
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect. Some children are born with an aortic valve that has only two cusps instead of the usual three. If there are only two cusps, it's called a bicuspid aortic valve. Rarely, an aortic valve may have one or four cusps.
Calcium buildup on the valve, called aortic valve calcification. Calcium is a mineral found in the blood. As blood moves over the aortic valve, calcium can collect on the valve. The calcium deposits may never cause any problems. Aortic valve stenosis that's related to increasing age and calcium deposit buildup usually doesn't cause symptoms until age 70 or 80. But in some people — particularly those with changes in the aortic valve at birth — calcium deposits might cause the valve to narrow at a younger age.
Rheumatic fever. This complication of untreated strep throat can damage the heart valves. It may cause scar tissue to form on the aortic valve. Scar tissue can narrow the aortic valve opening. It also may make a rough surface on which calcium deposits can collect.
Risk Factors for Aortic valve stenosis:
Risk factors of aortic valve stenosis include:
Older age.
Some heart conditions present at birth, called congenital heart defects. An example is a bicuspid aortic valve.
Long-term kidney disease.
Heart disease risk factors, such as diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure.
Infections that can affect the heart, such as rheumatic fever and infective endocarditis.
Radiation therapy to the chest.
Complications for Aortic valve stenosis:
Possible complications of aortic valve stenosis are:
Heart failure.
Stroke.
Blood clots.
Bleeding.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Infections that affect the heart, such as endocarditis.
Preventions for Aortic valve stenosis
Some possible ways to prevent aortic valve stenosis are:
Get a health checkup when you have a sore throat. Strep throat that is not treated can lead to rheumatic fever, which can damage heart valves. Strep throat can usually be easily treated with antibiotics. Rheumatic fever is more common in children and young adults.
Keep the heart healthy. Talk about your risk factors for heart disease with your healthcare team. Ask how to prevent and manage them. Risk factors such as high blood pressure, obesity and high cholesterol may be linked to aortic valve stenosis.
Take care of the teeth and gums. There may be a link between infected gums, called gingivitis, and a heart infection known as endocarditis. Endocarditis is a risk factor for aortic valve stenosis.
Condition name:Appendicitis
Overview of Appendicitis:
Appendicitis is an inflammation of the appendix. The appendix is a finger-shaped pouch that sticks out from the colon on the lower right side of the belly, also called the abdomen.
Appendicitis causes pain in the lower right part of the belly. However, in most people, pain begins around the belly button and then moves. As inflammation worsens, appendicitis pain typically increases and eventually becomes serious.
Although anyone can develop appendicitis, most often it happens in people between the ages of 10 and 30. Treatment of appendicitis is usually antibiotics and, in most instances, surgery to remove the appendix.
Home Remedies for Appendicitis:
Expect a few weeks of recovery from an appendectomy â€” or longer if your appendix burst. To help your body heal:
Limit your activity. If your appendectomy was done laparoscopically, limit your activity for 3 to 5 days. If you had an open appendectomy, limit your activity for 10 to 14 days. Always ask your healthcare team about limits on your activity and when you can resume your typical activities after surgery.
Support your abdomen when you cough. To help reduce pain, place a pillow over your belly and apply pressure before you cough, laugh or move.
Contact your healthcare team if your pain medicines aren't helping. Being in pain puts extra stress on your body and slows the healing process. If you're still in pain despite taking your pain medicines, call a member of your healthcare team.
Get up and move when you're ready. Start slowly and increase your activity as you feel able. Begin with short walks.
Sleep when tired. As your body heals, you may find that you feel more tired than usual. Take it easy and rest when you need to.
Discuss returning to work or school with your healthcare team. You can return to work when you feel ready. Children may be able to return to school less than a week after surgery. They should wait 2 to 4 weeks to return to certain activities, such as gym classes or sports.
Symptoms for Appendicitis :
Symptoms of appendicitis may include:
Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower belly.
Sudden pain that begins around the belly button and often shifts to the lower right belly.
Pain that worsens with coughing, walking or making other jarring movements.
Nausea and vomiting.
Loss of appetite.
Low-grade fever that may rise as the illness worsens.
Constipation or diarrhea.
Belly bloating.
Gas.
The site of the pain may vary, depending on age and the position of the appendix. In pregnancy, the pain may seem to come from the upper belly because the appendix is higher during pregnancy.
Causes for Appendicitis :
A blockage in the lining of the appendix, called the lumen, is the likely cause of appendicitis. This blockage can cause an infection. The bacteria then multiply quickly, causing the appendix to become inflamed, swollen and filled with pus. If not treated right away, the appendix may burst or break open.
Risk Factors for Appendicitis:
Risk factors for appendicitis include:
Age. Anyone can develop appendicitis, but it most often happens in people between the ages of 10 and 30.
Your sex. Men have a slightly higher risk of appendicitis than do women.
Complications for Appendicitis:
Appendicitis may cause serious complications, such as:
A burst appendix. A burst appendix, also called ruptured appendix, spreads infection throughout the abdomen, a condition called peritonitis. Possibly life-threatening, this condition requires immediate surgery to remove the appendix and clean the abdominal cavity.
A pocket of pus that forms in the abdomen. If the appendix bursts, a pocket of infection may develop. This is called an abscess. In most cases, a surgeon drains the abscess by placing a tube through the abdominal wall into the abscess. The tube is left in place for about two weeks, and antibiotics are prescribed to clear the infection.
Once the infection is clear, the appendix can be removed surgically. In some people, the abscess is drained, and the appendix is removed immediately.
There are no preventive measures available for Appendicitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:ARDS
Overview of ARDS:
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) occurs when lung swelling causes fluid to build up in the tiny elastic air sacs in the lungs. These air sacs, called alveoli, have a protective membrane, but lung swelling damages that membrane. The fluid leaking into the air sacs keeps the lungs from filling with enough air. This means less oxygen reaches the bloodstream, so the body's organs don't get the oxygen they need to work properly.
ARDS usually occurs in people who are already critically ill or have major injuries. People usually are severely short of breath — the main symptom of ARDS — within a few hours to a few days after the injury or infection that caused ARDS.
Many people who get ARDS don't survive. The risk of death gets higher with age and how severe the illness is. Of the people who survive ARDS, some fully recover. But others have lasting lung damage.
Home Remedies for ARDS:
If you're recovering from ARDS, these suggestions can help protect your lungs:
Quit smoking. If you smoke, seek help to quit. Also, stay away from secondhand smoke whenever you can.
Get vaccinated. Getting the flu, also called influenza, shot every year, as well as the pneumonia vaccine as often as recommended, can lower your risk of lung infections.
Attend pulmonary rehabilitation. Many medical centers now offer pulmonary rehabilitation programs that include exercise training, education and counseling to help you learn how to get back to your usual activities and get to your ideal weight.
Symptoms for ARDS :
The seriousness of ARDS symptoms can vary depending on what's causing them and whether there is underlying heart or lung disease. Symptoms include:
Severe shortness of breath.
Labored and rapid breathing that is not usual.
Cough.
Chest discomfort.
Fast heart rate.
Confusion and extreme tiredness.
Causes for ARDS :
Causes of ARDS include:
Sepsis. The most common cause of ARDS is sepsis, a serious and widespread infection of the bloodstream.
Severe pneumonia. Severe cases of pneumonia usually affect all five lobes of the lungs.
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). People who have severe COVID-19 may get ARDS. Because COVID-19 mainly affects the respiratory system, it can cause lung injury and swelling that can lead to COVID-19-related ARDS.
Head, chest or other major injury. Accidents, such as falls or car crashes, can damage the lungs or the portion of the brain that controls breathing.
Breathing in harmful substances. Breathing in a lot of smoke or chemical fumes can lead to ARDS, as can breathing in vomit. Breathing in water in cases of near-drownings also can cause ARDS.
Other conditions and treatments. Swelling of the pancreas (pancreatitis), massive blood transfusions and severe burns can lead to ARDS.
Risk Factors for ARDS:
Most people who get ARDS already are in a hospital for another condition. Many are critically ill. People are especially at risk if they have an infection, such as sepsis or pneumonia. They're also at higher risk if they have COVID-19, especially if they also have metabolic syndrome.
People who have alcohol use disorder or who use recreational drugs or smoke ― lifestyle habits that can harm the lungs ― are at higher risk of getting ARDS. Having a history of alcohol, drug or tobacco use also raises the risk of ARDS.
Complications for ARDS:
ARDS can cause other medical problems while in the hospital, including:
Blood clots. Lying still in the hospital while you're on a ventilator can make it more likely that you'll get blood clots, particularly in the deep veins in your legs. If a clot forms in your leg, a portion of it can break off and travel to one or both of your lungs, where it can block blood flow. This is called a pulmonary embolism.
Collapsed lung, also called pneumothorax. In most people with ARDS, a breathing machine called a ventilator brings more oxygen into the body and forces fluid out of the lungs. But the pressure and air volume of the ventilator can force gas to go through a small hole in the very outside of a lung and cause that lung to collapse.
Infections. A ventilator attaches to a tube inserted in your windpipe. This makes it much easier for germs to infect and injure your lungs.
Scarred and damaged lungs, known as pulmonary fibrosis. Scarring and thickening of the tissue between the air sacs in the lungs can occur within a few weeks of the start of ARDS. This makes your lungs stiffer, and it's even harder for oxygen to flow from the air sacs into your bloodstream.
Stress ulcers. Extra acid that your stomach makes because of serious illness or injury can irritate the stomach lining and lead to ulcers.
Thanks to better treatments, more people are surviving ARDS. But many survivors end up with potentially serious and sometimes lasting effects:
Breathing problems. After having ARDS, many people get most of their lung function back within several months to several years, but others may have breathing problems for the rest of their lives. Even people who do well usually have shortness of breath and fatigue and may need extra oxygen at home for a few months.
Depression. Most ARDS survivors also report going through a period of depression, which can be treated.
Problems with memory and thinking clearly. Sedatives and low levels of oxygen in the blood can lead to memory loss and learning problems after ARDS. In some people, the effects may get better over time. But in others, the damage may last for the rest of their lives.
Tiredness and muscle weakness. Being in the hospital and on a ventilator can cause your muscles to weaken. You also may feel very tired after treatment.
There are no preventive measures available for ARDS in the knowledge baseCondition name:Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis
Overview of Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis:
Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis are sometimes used to mean the same thing. But there's a difference between the two terms.
Arteriosclerosis happens when the blood vessels that carry oxygen and nutrients from the heart to the rest of the body become thick and stiff. These blood vessels are called arteries. Healthy arteries are flexible and elastic. But over time, the walls in the arteries can harden, a condition commonly called hardening of the arteries.
Atherosclerosis is a specific type of arteriosclerosis.
Atherosclerosis is the buildup of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the artery walls. This buildup is called plaque. The plaque can cause arteries to narrow, blocking blood flow. The plaque also can burst, leading to a blood clot.
Although atherosclerosis is often considered a heart condition, it can affect arteries anywhere in the body. Atherosclerosis can be treated. Healthy lifestyle habits can help prevent atherosclerosis.
Home Remedies for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis:
Lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy. They also can prevent or slow atherosclerosis. The American Heart Association recommends these eight heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke, vape or use tobacco. Also stay away from cigarette smoke. Smoking damages the arteries. Smoking is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. Nicotine tightens blood vessels and forces the heart to work harder. Not smoking is one of the best ways to lower the risk of atherosclerosis complications, such as a heart attack.
Get regular exercise. Staying active keeps the body healthy. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Keep a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of coronary artery disease, which is caused by atherosclerosis. Losing even a small amount of weight can help reduce the risk. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Eat healthy foods. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats. Read nutrition labels to check the amount of salt and fat.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce stress. Some ideas are to get more exercise, practice mindfulness and connect with others in support groups. Or try yoga or deep breathing. These relaxation practices can temporarily lower blood pressure, reducing the risk of developing atherosclerosis.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Symptoms for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis :
Mild atherosclerosis usually doesn't cause symptoms.
Atherosclerosis symptoms usually don't happen until an artery is so narrowed or clogged that it can't send enough blood to organs and tissues. Sometimes a blood clot completely blocks blood flow. The clot may break apart. If this happens, it may cause a heart attack or stroke.
Symptoms of moderate to severe atherosclerosis depend on which arteries are affected. For example, if you have atherosclerosis:
In your heart arteries, you may have chest pain or pressure, called angina.
In the arteries leading to your brain, you may have sudden numbness or weakness in your arms or legs, trouble speaking, slurred speech, sudden or temporary loss of vision in one eye, or drooping muscles in your face. These are symptoms of a transient ischemic attack (TIA). Untreated, a TIA can lead to a stroke.
In the arteries in your arms and legs, you may have leg pain when walking, called claudication. This is a symptom of peripheral artery disease (PAD). You also might have lower blood pressure in the affected arm or leg.
In the arteries leading to your kidneys, you may get high blood pressure or kidney failure.
Causes for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis :
Atherosclerosis is a disease that slowly gets worse. It may begin as early as childhood. The exact cause is not known. It may start with damage or injury to the inner layer of an artery. Artery damage may be caused by:
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
High triglycerides, a type of fat in the blood.
Smoking or other tobacco use.
Diabetes.
Insulin resistance.
Obesity.
Inflammation from an unknown cause or from diseases such as arthritis, lupus, psoriasis or inflammatory bowel disease.
Once the inner wall of an artery is damaged, blood cells and other substances may collect at the injury site. These substances build up in the inner lining of the artery.
Over time, fats, cholesterol and other substances also collect on and in the walls of the heart arteries. This buildup is called plaque. Plaque can cause the arteries to narrow. Narrowed arteries can block blood flow. The plaque also can burst, leading to a blood clot.
Risk Factors for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis:
Risk factors for atherosclerosis that you can't control include:
Aging.
A family history of early heart disease or stroke.
Changes in genes that make atherosclerosis more likely.
Having inflammatory conditions such as lupus, inflammatory bowel disease or psoriasis.
Risk factors for atherosclerosis that you may be able to control include:
An unhealthy diet.
Diabetes.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Lack of exercise.
Obesity.
Sleep apnea.
Smoking and other tobacco use.
Complications for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis:
The complications of atherosclerosis depend on which arteries are narrowed or blocked. For example:
Coronary artery disease. Atherosclerosis in the arteries close to the heart can lead to coronary artery disease. This may cause chest pain, a heart attack or heart failure.
Carotid artery disease. This is atherosclerosis in the arteries close to the brain. Complications include a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or stroke.
Peripheral artery disease. This is atherosclerosis in the arteries in the arms or legs. Complications include blocked or changed blood flow in the affected areas. Rarely, the lack of blood flow may cause tissue death, called gangrene.
Aneurysms. Sometimes atherosclerosis can form a bulge in the wall of an artery. This is called an aneurysm. An aneurysm can occur anywhere in the body. Most people with aneurysms have no symptoms. If an aneurysm bursts, it can cause life-threatening bleeding inside the body.
Chronic kidney disease. Atherosclerosis can cause the arteries leading to the kidneys to narrow. This prevents the kidneys from getting enough oxygen-rich blood. The kidneys need the blood flow to help remove fluids and waste products from the body.
Preventions for Arteriosclerosis / atherosclerosis
The same healthy lifestyle changes recommended to treat atherosclerosis also help prevent it. These lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy:
Do not smoke or use tobacco.
Eat nutritious foods.
Get regular exercise and keep an active lifestyle.
Keep a healthy weight.
Control blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol.
Condition name:Arteriovenous malformation
Overview of Arteriovenous malformation:
An arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a tangle of blood vessels that irregularly connects arteries and veins, disrupting blood flow and oxygen circulation. Arteries move oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the brain and other organs. Veins drain the oxygen-depleted blood back to the lungs and heart.
When an AVM disrupts this critical process, the surrounding tissues might not get enough oxygen. Also, because the tangled blood vessels in an AVM do not form properly, they can weaken and rupture. If an AVM in the brain ruptures, it can cause bleeding in the brain, stroke or brain damage. Bleeding in the brain also is called hemorrhage.
Read more about brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation).
The cause of AVMs is not clear. They're rarely hereditary, meaning passed down in families.
Once diagnosed, a brain AVM often can be treated successfully to prevent or reduce the risk of complications.
There are no home remedies available for Arteriovenous malformation in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Arteriovenous malformation :
Symptoms of an AVM vary based on where it's found. Often the first symptoms appear after bleeding occurs. Besides bleeding, symptoms can include:
Progressive loss of neurological function
Headaches
Nausea and vomiting
Seizures
Loss of consciousness
Other possible symptoms include:
Weak muscles
Paralysis in one part of the body
Loss of coordination that can cause problems with gait
Problems performing tasks that require planning
Weakness in the lower extremities
Back pain
Dizziness
Vision problems, including losing part of the field of vision, loss of control of eye movements or swelling of part of the optic nerve
Problems with speech or understanding language
Unusual sensations including numbness, tingling or sudden pain
Memory loss or dementia
Hallucinations
Confusion
Children and teens might have trouble with learning or behavior.
One type of AVM called a vein of Galen defect causes symptoms that appear at or shortly after birth. A vein of Galen defect is situated deep inside the brain. Signs can include:
A buildup of fluid in the brain that causes enlargement of the head
Swollen veins on the scalp
Seizures
Failure to thrive
Congestive heart failure
Causes for Arteriovenous malformation :
AVMs result from the development of irregular connections between arteries and veins, but experts don't understand why this happens. Certain genetic changes might play a role, but most types are not usually inherited, which means passed down in families.
Risk Factors for Arteriovenous malformation:
Rarely, having a family history of AVMs can increase your risk. But most types of AVMs aren't inherited.
Certain hereditary conditions can increase your risk of AVM. These include hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, which is also called Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome.
Complications for Arteriovenous malformation:
The most common complications of an AVM are bleeding and seizures. If left untreated, the bleeding can cause significant neurological damage and may be fatal.
There are no preventive measures available for Arteriovenous malformation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Arthritis
Overview of Arthritis:
Arthritis is the swelling and tenderness of one or more joints. The main symptoms of arthritis are joint pain and stiffness, which typically worsen with age. The most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
Osteoarthritis causes cartilage — the hard, slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones where they form a joint — to break down. Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease in which the immune system attacks the joints, beginning with the lining of joints.
Uric acid crystals, which form when there's too much uric acid in your blood, can cause gout. Infections or underlying disease, such as psoriasis or lupus, can cause other types of arthritis.
Treatments vary depending on the type of arthritis. The main goals of arthritis treatments are to reduce symptoms and improve quality of life.
Home Remedies for Arthritis:
In many cases, arthritis symptoms can be reduced with the following measures:
Weight loss. Excess weight puts extra stress on weight-bearing joints. Losing weight may increase your mobility and limit future joint injury.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help keep joints flexible. Swimming and water aerobics may be good choices because the buoyancy of the water reduces stress on weight-bearing joints.
Heat and cold. Heating pads or ice packs may help relieve arthritis pain.
Assistive devices. Using canes, shoe inserts, walkers, raised toilet seats, and other assistive devices can help protect joints and improve your ability to perform daily tasks.
More Information
Arthritis pain: Do's and don'ts
Exercising with arthritis
Joint protection
Symptoms for Arthritis :
The most common signs and symptoms of arthritis involve the joints. Depending on the type of arthritis, signs and symptoms may include:
Pain
Stiffness
Swelling
Redness
Decreased range of motion
Causes for Arthritis :
The two main types of arthritis — osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis — damage joints in different ways.
Risk Factors for Arthritis:
Risk factors for arthritis include:
Family history. Some types of arthritis run in families, so you may be more likely to develop arthritis if your parents or siblings have the disorder.
Age. The risk of many types of arthritis — including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and gout — increases with age.
Your sex. Women are more likely than men to develop rheumatoid arthritis, while most of the people who have gout, another type of arthritis, are men.
Previous joint injury. People who have injured a joint, perhaps while playing a sport, are more likely to eventually develop arthritis in that joint.
Obesity. Carrying excess pounds puts stress on joints, particularly your knees, hips and spine. People with obesity have a higher risk of developing arthritis.
Complications for Arthritis:
Severe arthritis, particularly if it affects your hands or arms, can make it difficult for you to do daily tasks. Arthritis of weight-bearing joints can keep you from walking comfortably or sitting up straight. In some cases, joints may gradually lose their alignment and shape.
There are no preventive measures available for Arthritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Asthma
Overview of Asthma:
Asthma is a condition in which your airways narrow and swell and may produce extra mucus. This can make breathing difficult and trigger coughing, a whistling sound (wheezing) when you breathe out and shortness of breath.
For some people, asthma is a minor nuisance. For others, it can be a major problem that interferes with daily activities and may lead to a life-threatening asthma attack.
Asthma can't be cured, but its symptoms can be controlled. Because asthma often changes over time, it's important that you work with your doctor to track your signs and symptoms and adjust your treatment as needed.
Home Remedies for Asthma:
Although many people with asthma rely on medications to prevent and relieve symptoms, you can do several things on your own to maintain your health and lessen the possibility of asthma attacks.
Avoid your triggers
Taking steps to reduce your exposure to asthma triggers is a key part of asthma control. To reduce your exposure, you should:
Use your air conditioner. Air conditioning reduces the amount of airborne pollen from trees, grasses and weeds that finds its way indoors. Air conditioning also lowers indoor humidity and can reduce your exposure to dust mites. If you don't have air conditioning, try to keep your windows closed during pollen season.
Decontaminate your decor. Minimize dust that may worsen nighttime symptoms by replacing certain items in your bedroom. For example, encase pillows, mattresses and box springs in dustproof covers. Avoid using down-filled pillows and blankets. Throughout the house, remove carpeting and install hardwood or linoleum flooring. Use washable curtains and blinds.
Maintain optimal humidity. If you live in a damp climate, talk to your doctor about using a dehumidifier.
Prevent mold spores. Clean damp areas in the bathroom, kitchen and around the house to keep mold spores from developing. Get rid of moldy leaves or damp firewood in the yard.
Reduce pet dander. If you're allergic to dander, avoid pets with fur or feathers. Having pets regularly bathed or groomed may also reduce the amount of dander in your surroundings.
Clean regularly. Clean your home at least once a week. If you're likely to stir up dust, wear a mask or have someone else do the cleaning. Wash your bedding regularly.
Cover your nose and mouth if it's cold out. If your asthma is worsened by cold or dry air, wearing a face mask can help.
Stay healthy
Taking care of yourself can help keep your symptoms under control, including:
Get regular exercise. Having asthma doesn't mean you have to be less active. Treatment can prevent asthma attacks and control symptoms during activity.
Regular exercise can strengthen your heart and lungs, which helps relieve asthma symptoms. If you exercise in cold temperatures, wear a face mask to warm the air you breathe.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight can worsen asthma symptoms, and it puts you at higher risk of other health problems.
Control heartburn and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). It's possible that the acid reflux that causes heartburn may damage lung airways and worsen asthma symptoms. If you have frequent or constant heartburn, talk to your doctor about treatment options. You may need treatment for GERD before your asthma symptoms improve.
More Information
Asthma care at Mayo Clinic
Asthma diet
Ozone air purifiers
Show more related information
Symptoms for Asthma :
Asthma symptoms vary from person to person. You may have infrequent asthma attacks, have symptoms only at certain times — such as when exercising — or have symptoms all the time.
Asthma signs and symptoms include:
Shortness of breath
Chest tightness or pain
Wheezing when exhaling, which is a common sign of asthma in children
Trouble sleeping caused by shortness of breath, coughing or wheezing
Coughing or wheezing attacks that are worsened by a respiratory virus, such as a cold or the flu
Signs that your asthma is probably worsening include:
Asthma signs and symptoms that are more frequent and bothersome
Increasing difficulty breathing, as measured with a device used to check how well your lungs are working (peak flow meter)
The need to use a quick-relief inhaler more often
For some people, asthma signs and symptoms flare up in certain situations:
Exercise-induced asthma, which may be worse when the air is cold and dry
Occupational asthma, triggered by workplace irritants such as chemical fumes, gases or dust
Allergy-induced asthma, triggered by airborne substances, such as pollen, mold spores, cockroach waste, or particles of skin and dried saliva shed by pets (pet dander)
Causes for Asthma :
It isn't clear why some people get asthma and others don't, but it's probably due to a combination of environmental and inherited (genetic) factors.
Risk Factors for Asthma:
A number of factors are thought to increase your chances of developing asthma. They include:
Having a blood relative with asthma, such as a parent or sibling
Having another allergic condition, such as atopic dermatitis — which causes red, itchy skin — or hay fever — which causes a runny nose, congestion and itchy eyes
Being overweight
Being a smoker
Exposure to secondhand smoke
Exposure to exhaust fumes or other types of pollution
Exposure to occupational triggers, such as chemicals used in farming, hairdressing and manufacturing
Complications for Asthma:
Asthma complications include:
Signs and symptoms that interfere with sleep, work and other activities
Sick days from work or school during asthma flare-ups
A permanent narrowing of the tubes that carry air to and from your lungs (bronchial tubes), which affects how well you can breathe
Emergency room visits and hospitalizations for severe asthma attacks
Side effects from long-term use of some medications used to stabilize severe asthma
Proper treatment makes a big difference in preventing both short-term and long-term complications caused by asthma.
Preventions for Asthma
While there's no way to prevent asthma, you and your doctor can design a step-by-step plan for living with your condition and preventing asthma attacks.
Follow your asthma action plan. With your doctor and health care team, write a detailed plan for taking medications and managing an asthma attack. Then be sure to follow your plan.
Asthma is an ongoing condition that needs regular monitoring and treatment. Taking control of your treatment can make you feel more in control of your life.
Get vaccinated for influenza and pneumonia. Staying current with vaccinations can prevent flu and pneumonia from triggering asthma flare-ups.
Identify and avoid asthma triggers. A number of outdoor allergens and irritants — ranging from pollen and mold to cold air and air pollution — can trigger asthma attacks. Find out what causes or worsens your asthma, and take steps to avoid those triggers.
Monitor your breathing. You may learn to recognize warning signs of an impending attack, such as slight coughing, wheezing or shortness of breath.
But because your lung function may decrease before you notice any signs or symptoms, regularly measure and record your peak airflow with a home peak flow meter. A peak flow meter measures how hard you can breathe out. Your doctor can show you how to monitor your peak flow at home.
Identify and treat attacks early. If you act quickly, you're less likely to have a severe attack. You also won't need as much medication to control your symptoms.
When your peak flow measurements decrease and alert you to an oncoming attack, take your medication as instructed. Also, immediately stop any activity that may have triggered the attack. If your symptoms don't improve, get medical help as directed in your action plan.
Take your medication as prescribed. Don't change your medications without first talking to your doctor, even if your asthma seems to be improving. It's a good idea to bring your medications with you to each doctor visit. Your doctor can make sure you're using your medications correctly and taking the right dose.
Pay attention to increasing quick-relief inhaler use. If you find yourself relying on your quick-relief inhaler, such as albuterol, your asthma isn't under control. See your doctor about adjusting your treatment.
Condition name:Asthma attack
Overview of Asthma attack:
An asthma attack is a sudden worsening of asthma symptoms. Asthma is a long-term condition that makes breathing difficult because airways in the lungs become narrow. Symptoms of asthma attack include coughing, wheezing, tightness in the chest and difficulty getting enough air.
These symptoms happen because muscles around airways tighten up, the airways become irritated and swollen, and the lining of the airways produces a fluid called mucus. All of these factors make it difficult to breathe.
People who already have a diagnosis of asthma usually have an asthma action plan. This tells them what medicines to take if they have an asthma attack and when to get emergency care. People who do not have a diagnosis or don't have a treatment plan should get emergency care if they have these symptoms.
Frequent asthma attacks show that a person's asthma is not under control. A healthcare professional might make changes in medicines and the asthma action plan to improve control.
An asthma attack also is called an asthma exacerbation or asthma flare-up.
There are no home remedies available for Asthma attack in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Asthma attack :
Symptoms of asthma attacks may include:
Shortness of breath.
Chest tightness or pain.
Coughing.
Wheezing.
Severe symptoms also may include:
Gasping for breath.
Difficulty speaking because of shortness of breath.
Straining of chest muscles to breathe.
Worse symptoms when lying on the back.
Severe sweating.
The result of an at-home test, called a peak flow meter, can be an important sign of an asthma attack. This device measures how quickly you can force air out of your lungs. Peak flow readings are usually a percentage of how your lungs work at their best. This is called your personal best peak flow.
An asthma action plan often includes steps to take based on a peak flow reading. A reading below 80% of a best peak flow can be a sign of an asthma attack.
Causes for Asthma attack :
Asthma is usually a lifelong disease of inflammation in the lungs caused by an overactive immune system. Inflammation in the lungs includes the tightening of muscles around airways, swelling of tissues in the airways and the release of mucus that can block airways. When this happens, it's difficult to breathe.
Asthma attacks occur when something triggers the immune system to take action. Triggers may include:
Allergic reaction to pollen, pets, mold, cockroaches and dust mites.
Colds, the flu or other illnesses affecting the nose, mouth and throat.
Tobacco smoke.
Cold, dry air.
Exercise.
A condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) that results in stomach acids entering the tube between the mouth and stomach.
Pollution or irritating chemicals in the air.
Pain relievers, such as aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, and some other medicines.
Depression or anxiety.
Risk Factors for Asthma attack:
Anyone who has asthma is at risk of an asthma attack. Factors that can increase the risk include:
Poorly controlled allergies.
Exposure to triggers in the environment.
Not taking daily asthma medicines.
Incorrect use of inhaler.
Long-lasting depression or anxiety.
Other long-term illnesses, such as heart disease or diabetes.
Complications for Asthma attack:
Asthma attacks affect both a person's health and quality of life. Problems may include:
Missed days of school or work.
Frequent emergency or urgent care visits.
Interrupted sleep.
Limits on regular exercise or recreational activities.
Severe asthma attacks can cause death. Life-threatening asthma attacks are more likely for people who frequently use quick-relief medicines, have had emergency room visits or hospital stays to treat asthma, or have other long-term illnesses.
Preventions for Asthma attack
An important step to prevent an allergy attack is to follow your asthma action plan:
Take your long-term asthma control medicine every day.
Take peak flow readings as directed.
Take your quick-relief medicine before exercise as directed.
Use quick-relief medicine as stated in your plan.
Keep track of how often you use quick-relief medicine.
Your input on how well the plan is working helps your healthcare professional adjust the treatment to prevent asthma attacks.
Other steps to prevent asthma attacks include the following:
Avoid triggers as much as possible.
Stay indoors when there are poor air quality warnings.
Get tested for possible allergies and take allergy medicines as directed.
Wash your hands frequently to lower the risk of getting a cold or the flu.
Keep current on vaccinations, including annual flu and COVID-19 shots, and others recommended by your healthcare professional.
Get treatment for depression, anxiety or related conditions.
If you smoke, quit.
Wear a mask while cleaning.
Cover your mouth with a scarf or mask on cold days.
Condition name:Astrocytoma
Overview of Astrocytoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Astrocytoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Astrocytoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Astrocytoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Astrocytoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Astrocytoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Astrocytoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ataxia
Overview of Ataxia:
Ataxia describes poor muscle control that causes clumsy movements. It can affect walking and balance, hand coordination, speech and swallowing, and eye movements.
Ataxia usually results from damage to the part of the brain called the cerebellum or its connections. The cerebellum controls muscle coordination. Many conditions can cause ataxia, including genetic conditions, stroke, tumors, multiple sclerosis, degenerative diseases and alcohol misuse. Certain medicines also can cause ataxia.
Treatment for ataxia depends on the cause. Devices such as walkers and canes might help maintain independence. These also are called adaptive devices. Physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy and regular exercise also might help.
There are no home remedies available for Ataxia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ataxia :
Ataxia symptoms can develop over time or start suddenly. Ataxia can be a symptom of several nervous system conditions. Symptoms may include:
Poor coordination.
Walking unsteadily or with the feet set wide apart.
Poor balance.
Trouble with fine motor tasks such as eating, writing or buttoning a shirt.
Changes in speech.
Back-and-forth eye movements that can't be controlled.
Trouble swallowing.
Causes for Ataxia :
Ataxia is caused by damage to the part of the brain called the cerebellum or its connections. The cerebellum is located at the base of the brain and connects to the brainstem. The cerebellum helps control balance, eye movements, swallowing and speech.
There are three major groups of ataxia causes: acquired, degenerative and hereditary.
Alcohol. Long-term excess alcohol use may cause persistent ataxia. Ataxia may improve by staying away from alcohol completely.
Medicines. Ataxia is a potential side effect of certain medicines. It can be caused by sedatives such as phenobarbital and benzodiazepines. It also may be caused by anti-seizure medicines, especially phenytoin. Some types of chemotherapy also can cause ataxia.
Toxins. Heavy metal poisoning, such as from lead or mercury, and solvent poisoning, such as from paint thinner, also can cause ataxia.
Too little or too much of certain vitamins. Ataxia may be caused by not getting enough vitamin E, vitamin B-12 or vitamin B-1, also known as thiamine. Too little or too much vitamin B-6 also may cause ataxia. Not getting enough of a certain vitamin is known as a vitamin deficiency. When a vitamin deficiency is the cause of ataxia, it often can be reversed.
Thyroid conditions. Hypothyroidism and hypoparathyroidism can cause ataxia.
Stroke. Sudden onset of ataxia occurs with a stroke. This may be either due to a blood vessel blockage or bleeding on the brain.
Multiple sclerosis. This condition may cause ataxia.
Autoimmune diseases. Several diseases in which the immune system attacks healthy cells, known as autoimmune diseases, can cause ataxia. They can include a disease that causes inflammatory cells to collect in parts of the body, known as sarcoidosis. Or they may include an illness caused by an immune reaction to eating gluten, known as celiac disease. Ataxia also can be caused by certain types of a condition that results in swelling in the brain and spinal cord, called encephalomyelitis.
Infections. Rarely, ataxia may be a symptom of chickenpox in childhood and other viral infections such as HIV and Lyme disease. It might appear in the healing stages of the infection and last for days or weeks. The symptom usually gets better over time.
COVID-19. Ataxia can result from a serious infection with the virus that causes COVID-19.
Paraneoplastic syndromes. These are rare degenerative conditions triggered by an immune system response to a cancerous tumor, known as a neoplasm. Paraneoplastic syndromes most often occur from lung, ovarian or breast cancer or lymphoma. Ataxia can appear months or years before the cancer is diagnosed.
Changes in the brain. An infected area in the brain, known as an abscess, may cause ataxia. And a growth on the brain, such as a cancerous or noncancerous tumor, can damage the cerebellum.
Head trauma. Brain damage may cause ataxia.
Cerebral palsy. This is a general term for a group of conditions caused by damage to a child's brain. The damage may happen before, during or shortly after birth. It affects the child's ability to coordinate body movements.
Multiple system atrophy. This rare condition affects movements and functions such as blood pressure. It can cause ataxia and other symptoms, including lack of bladder control, fainting after standing up and a sleep behavior condition in which a person acts out dreams.
Some types of ataxia and some conditions that cause ataxia are passed down in families. These conditions also are called hereditary. If you have one of these conditions, you may have been born with a genetic change that causes the body to make irregular proteins.
The irregular proteins affect the function of nerve cells, primarily in the cerebellum and spinal cord. They cause the nerve cells to break down and die, known as degeneration. As the disease progresses, coordination problems worsen.
People with a genetic ataxia may have inherited a dominant gene from one parent, known as an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. Or they may have inherited a recessive gene from both parents, known as an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. In a recessive condition, the parents are not affected but siblings may be affected.
Different gene changes cause different types of ataxia. Most types get worse over time. Each type causes poor coordination but also has other specific symptoms.
Risk Factors for Ataxia:
There are several risk factors for ataxia. People who have a family history of ataxia are at a higher risk of having ataxia themselves.
Other risk factors include:
Drinking too much alcohol over a long period.
Having hypothyroidism or hypoparathyroidism.
Having multiple sclerosis.
Having an illness caused by an immune reaction to eating gluten, known as celiac disease.
Having a disease that causes inflammatory cells to build up in parts of the body, known as sarcoidosis.
Having a degenerative disease called multiple system atrophy.
Having a paraneoplastic syndrome triggered by cancer.
Taking medicines that increase the risk of ataxia, such as anti-seizure medicines and sedatives.
Being exposed to heavy metals, such as lead or mercury, or solvents, such as from paint thinner.
Not getting enough vitamin E, vitamin B-6, vitamin B-12 or vitamin B-1, also known as thiamine. Getting too much vitamin B-6 also is a risk factor.
There are no Complications available for Ataxia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ataxia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Atelectasis
Overview of Atelectasis:
Atelectasis (at-uh-LEK-tuh-sis) is the collapse of a lung or part of a lung, also known as a lobe. It happens when tiny air sacs within the lung, called alveoli, lose air.
Atelectasis is one of the most common breathing complications after surgery. It's also a possible complication of other respiratory problems, including cystic fibrosis, lung tumors, chest injuries, fluid in the lung and respiratory weakness. You may develop atelectasis if you breathe in a foreign object.
This condition can make breathing hard, particularly if you already have lung disease. Treatment depends on what's causing the collapse and how severe it is.
The definition of atelectasis is broader than pneumothorax (noo-moe-THOR-aks). Pneumothorax is when air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, causing part or all of a lung to collapse. Pneumothorax is one of several causes of atelectasis.
There are no home remedies available for Atelectasis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atelectasis :
There may be no clear signs of atelectasis. If you have any signs, they may include:
Having a hard time breathing.
Rapid, weak breathing.
Wheezing.
Coughing.
Causes for Atelectasis :
A blocked airway can cause atelectasis. This is called obstructive atelectasis. Pressure from outside the lung also can cause atelectasis. This is called nonobstructive atelectasis.
General anesthesia — which brings on a sleeplike state with the use of medicines before a procedure or surgery — is a common cause of atelectasis. It changes your regular pattern of breathing and affects the exchange of lung gases. This can cause the air sacs in your lungs to lose air. Nearly everyone who has major surgery has some amount of atelectasis. It often occurs after heart bypass surgery.
When a blocked airway causes atelectasis, it may be due to:
Mucus plug. A mucus plug is a buildup of sputum or phlegm in your airways. It commonly occurs during and after surgery because you can't cough. Drugs given during surgery make you breathe less deeply. So mucus that usually would move out of your lungs may build up in your airways. Suctioning the lungs during surgery helps clear them. But sometimes mucus still builds up. Mucus plugs also are common in children, people with cystic fibrosis and during severe asthma attacks.
Foreign body. Atelectasis is common in children who have inhaled an object into their lungs, such as a peanut or part of a small toy.
Tumor inside the airway. A growth, which may or may not be cancer, can narrow or block the airway.
Possible causes of atelectasis due to pressure from outside the lung include:
Injury. Chest trauma, such as from a fall or car accident, can cause you to avoid taking deep breaths due to pain. This can lead to the squeezing of your lungs.
Pleural effusion. This condition involves the buildup of fluid in the space between the lining of your lungs and the inside of your chest wall.
Pneumonia. Various types of pneumonia, which is a lung infection, can cause atelectasis.
Pneumothorax. This is when air leaks into the space between your lungs and chest wall, causing some or all of a lung to collapse.
Scarring of lung tissue. Injury, lung disease or surgery could cause scarring.
Tumor. A large tumor can press against the lung and force air out of it.
Risk Factors for Atelectasis:
Factors that make you more likely to get atelectasis include:
Any condition that makes it hard to swallow.
Needing to stay in bed over a long time and not having enough changes of position.
Lung disease, such as asthma, bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis.
Recent surgery in the stomach area or chest.
Recent general anesthesia.
Weak breathing muscles due to muscular dystrophy, spinal cord injury or another neuromuscular condition.
Medicines that may cause weak breathing.
Pain or injury that may make it painful to cough or cause weak breathing, including stomach pain or a broken rib.
Smoking.
Complications for Atelectasis:
A small area of atelectasis, especially in adults, usually can be treated. These complications may come from atelectasis:
Low blood oxygen (hypoxemia). Atelectasis makes it harder for your lungs to get oxygen to the air sacs.
Pneumonia. Your risk of pneumonia continues until the atelectasis goes away. Mucus in a collapsed lung may lead to infection.
Respiratory failure. Loss of a lobe or a whole lung, especially in an infant or someone with lung disease, can be life-threatening.
Preventions for Atelectasis
Atelectasis in children is often caused by a blockage in the airway. To lower the risk of atelectasis, keep small objects out of the reach of children.
In adults, atelectasis most commonly occurs after major surgery. If you're scheduled for surgery, talk with your doctor about ways to lower your risk. Some research shows that certain breathing exercises and muscle training may lower the risk of atelectasis after some surgeries.
Condition name:Athlete's foot
Overview of Athlete's foot:
Athlete's foot (tinea pedis) is a fungal skin infection that usually begins between the toes. It commonly occurs in people whose feet have become very sweaty while confined within tight-fitting shoes.
Signs and symptoms of athlete's foot include an itchy, scaly rash. The condition is contagious and can be spread via contaminated floors, towels or clothing.
Athlete's foot is closely related to other fungal infections such as ringworm and jock itch. It can be treated with antifungal medications, but the infection often comes back.
Home Remedies for Athlete's foot:
These tips can help you ease the symptoms of athlete's foot or avoid a recurrence:
Keep your feet clean and dry. Wash your feet twice a day and gently towel-dry between the toes.
Use an antifungal product. After washing and drying your feet, apply an antifungal product. The antifungal terbinafine (Lamisil AT) has been shown to be very effective. Another option is clotrimazole (Lotrimin AF). You may need to experiment to find the product and formulation â€” ointment, gel, cream, lotion, powder or spray â€” that work for you. Apply the product to the affected skin as directed â€” usually twice a day until a week after the rash clears up. It might take 2 to 4 weeks to see results. If the condition comes back, you might need to start applying the product again.
Change socks regularly. Change your socks at least once a day â€” more often if your feet get really sweaty.
Wear light, well-ventilated footwear. Avoid shoes made of synthetic material, such as vinyl or rubber. Wear sandals when possible to let your feet air out.
Alternate pairs of shoes. Use different shoes from day to day. This gives your shoes time to dry after each use.
Protect your feet in public places. Wear waterproof sandals or shoes around public pools, showers and lockers rooms.
Try not to scratch the rash. You can try soothing your itchy feet by soaking them in cool water.
Don't share shoes. Sharing risks spreading a fungal infection.
Symptoms for Athlete's foot :
Athlete's foot can affect one or both feet. Common signs and symptoms are:
Scaly, peeling or cracked skin between the toes
Itchiness, especially right after taking off shoes and socks
Inflamed skin that might appear reddish, purplish or grayish, depending on your skin color
Burning or stinging
Blisters
Dry, scaly skin on the bottom of the foot that extends up the side
Causes for Athlete's foot :
Athlete's foot is caused by the same type of fungi (dermatophytes) that cause ringworm and jock itch. Damp socks and shoes and warm, humid conditions favor the organisms' growth.
Athlete's foot is contagious and can spread through contact with an infected person or from contact with contaminated surfaces, such as towels, floors and shoes. You can also spread it from the foot to other parts of the body, especially if you scratch or pick the infected parts of your foot.
Risk Factors for Athlete's foot:
You are at higher risk of athlete's foot if you:
Frequently wear enclosed footwear
Sweat heavily
Share mats, rugs, bed linens, clothes or shoes with someone who has a fungal infection
Walk barefoot in public areas where the infection can spread, such as locker rooms, saunas, swimming pools, communal baths and showers
Complications for Athlete's foot:
The athlete's foot infection can spread to other warm, moist parts of the body. Jock itch is often caused by the same fungus that results in athlete's foot. It's common for the infection to spread from the feet to the groin because the fungus can travel on hands or towels.
Athlete's foot can sometimes lead to bacterial infections.
Preventions for Athlete's foot
These tips can help you avoid athlete's foot or avoid spreading it to others:
Let your feet air out. When you can, wear sandals to let your feet air out as much as possible.
Wash your feet daily. Use warm, soapy water and rinse and dry your feet thoroughly, especially between the toes. Apply a medicated foot powder (Tinactin, Gold Bond, others) or other medicated powder (Lotrimin AF, Zeasorb, others) if you're prone to athlete's foot.
Change socks regularly. Change your socks at least once a day — more often if your feet get really sweaty. Moisture-wicking socks, such as those made from cotton, help keep your feet drier than do nylon socks.
Alternate pairs of shoes. Use different shoes from day to day. This gives your shoes time to dry after each use.
Protect your feet in public places. Wear waterproof sandals or shoes around public pools, showers and lockers rooms.
Be aware of the risk factors for spreading the condition. If you live with others, don't share shoes or unwashed bedding and towels.
Condition name:Atopic dermatitis (eczema)
Overview of Atopic dermatitis (eczema):
Atopic dermatitis (eczema) is a condition that causes dry, itchy and inflamed skin. It's common in young children but can occur at any age. Atopic dermatitis is long lasting (chronic) and tends to flare sometimes. It can be irritating but it's not contagious.
People with atopic dermatitis are at risk of developing food allergies, hay fever and asthma.
Moisturizing regularly and following other skin care habits can relieve itching and prevent new outbreaks (flares). Treatment may also include medicated ointments or creams.
Home Remedies for Atopic dermatitis (eczema):
Taking care of sensitive skin is the first step in treating atopic dermatitis and preventing flares. To help reduce itching and soothe inflamed skin, try these self-care measures:
Moisturize your skin at least twice a day. Find a product or combination of products that works for you. You might try bath oils, creams, lotions, shea butter, ointments or sprays. For a child, the twice-a-day regimen might be an ointment before bedtime and a cream before school. Ointments are greasier and may sting less when applied. Choose products that are free of dyes, alcohols, fragrances and other ingredients that might irritate the skin. Allow the moisturizer to absorb into the skin before getting dressed.
Apply an anti-itch cream to the affected area. A nonprescription cream containing at least 1% hydrocortisone can temporarily relieve the itch. Apply it no more than twice a day to the affected area before moisturizing. Once your reaction has improved, you may use this type of cream less often to prevent flares.
Take an oral allergy or anti-itch medication. Options include nonprescription allergy medicines (antihistamines) â€” such as cetirizine (Zyrtec Allergy) or fexofenadine (Allegra Allergy). Also, diphenhydramine (Benadryl, others) may be helpful if itching is severe. But it causes drowsiness, so it's better for bedtime. The type of antihistamine that causes drowsiness may negatively affect the school performance of some children.
Don't scratch. Rather than scratching when you itch, try pressing on or patting the skin. Cover the itchy area if you can't keep from scratching it. Keep your nails trimmed. For children, it might help to trim their nails and have them wear socks or gloves at night.
Take a daily bath or shower. Use warm, rather than hot, water. If you're taking a bath, sprinkle the water with colloidal oatmeal, which is finely ground oatmeal made for bathing (Aveeno, others). Soak for less than 10 minutes, then pat dry. Apply moisturizer while the skin is still damp (within three minutes).
Use a gentle, nonsoap cleanser. Choose one without dyes, alcohols or fragrances. Harsh soaps can wash away your skin's natural oils. Be sure to rinse off the cleanser completely.
Take a bleach bath. The American Academy of Dermatology recommends a bleach bath for relief from severe or frequent flares. Talk with your health care provider about whether this is a good option for you.
A diluted-bleach bath decreases bacteria on the skin and related infections. Add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measurements are for a U.S.-standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes.
Soak from the neck down or just the affected areas for 5 to10 minutes. Don't put the head under water. Rinse off the bleach water with tap water. Take a bleach bath 2 to 3 times a week.
Use a humidifier. Hot, dry indoor air can parch sensitive skin and worsen itching and flaking. A portable home humidifier or a humidifier attached to your furnace adds moisture to the air inside your home.
Wear cool, smooth-textured clothing. Avoiding clothing that's rough, tight or scratchy. Also, in hot weather or while exercising, choose lightweight clothing that lets your skin breathe. When washing your clothing, avoid harsh detergents and fabric softeners added during the drying cycle.
Treat stress and anxiety. Stress and other emotional disorders can worsen atopic dermatitis. Being aware of stress and anxiety and taking steps to improve your emotional health may help your skin too.
More Information
Atopic dermatitis: Proper bathing can reduce itching
Atopic dermatitis: Understand your triggers
Ease stress to reduce eczema symptoms
Show more related information
Symptoms for Atopic dermatitis (eczema) :
Atopic dermatitis (eczema) symptoms can appear anywhere on the body and vary widely from person to person. They may include:
Dry, cracked skin
Itchiness (pruritus)
Rash on swollen skin that varies in color depending on your skin color
Small, raised bumps, on brown or Black skin
Oozing and crusting
Thickened skin
Darkening of the skin around the eyes
Raw, sensitive skin from scratching
Atopic dermatitis often begins before age 5 and may continue into the teen and adult years. For some people, it flares and then clears up for a time, even for several years.
Causes for Atopic dermatitis (eczema) :
In some people, atopic dermatitis is related to a gene variation that affects the skin's ability to provide protection. With a weak barrier function, the skin is less able to retain moisture and protect against bacteria, irritants, allergens and environmental factors — such as tobacco smoke.
In other people, atopic dermatitis is caused by too much of the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus on the skin. This displaces helpful bacteria and disrupts the skin's barrier function.
A weak skin barrier function might also trigger an immune system response that causes the inflamed skin and other symptoms.
Atopic dermatitis (eczema) is one of several types of dermatitis. Other common types are contact dermatitis and seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff). Dermatitis isn't contagious.
Risk Factors for Atopic dermatitis (eczema):
The main risk factor for atopic dermatitis is having had eczema, allergies, hay fever or asthma in the past. Having family members with these conditions also increases your risk.
Complications for Atopic dermatitis (eczema):
Complications of atopic dermatitis (eczema) may include:
Asthma and hay fever. Many people with atopic dermatitis develop asthma and hay fever. This can happen before or after developing atopic dermatitis.
Food allergies. People with atopic dermatitis often develop food allergies. One of the main symptoms of this condition is hives (urticaria).
Chronic itchy, scaly skin. A skin condition called neurodermatitis (lichen simplex chronicus) starts with a patch of itchy skin. You scratch the area, which provides only temporary relief. Scratching actually makes the skin itchier because it activates the nerve fibers in your skin. Over time, you may scratch out of habit. This condition can cause the affected skin to become discolored, thick and leathery.
Patches of skin that's darker or lighter than the surrounding area. This complication after the rash has healed is called post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation. It's more common in people with brown or Black skin. It might take several months for the discoloration to fade.
Skin infections. Repeated scratching that breaks the skin can cause open sores and cracks. These increase the risk of infection from bacteria and viruses. These skin infections can spread and become life-threatening.
Irritant hand dermatitis. This especially affects people whose hands are often wet and exposed to harsh soaps, detergents and disinfectant at work.
Allergic contact dermatitis. This condition is common in people with atopic dermatitis. Allergic contact dermatitis is an itchy rash caused by touching substances you're allergic to. The color of the rash varies depending on your skin color.
Sleep problems. The itchiness of atopic dermatitis can interfere with sleep.
Mental health conditions. Atopic dermatitis is associated with depression and anxiety. This may be related to the constant itching and sleep problems common among people with atopic dermatitis.
Preventions for Atopic dermatitis (eczema)
Developing a basic skin care routine may help prevent eczema flares. The following tips may help reduce the drying effects of bathing:
Moisturize your skin at least twice a day. Creams, ointments, shea butter and lotions seal in moisture. Choose a product or products that work well for you. Ideally, the best one for you will be safe, effective, affordable and unscented.
Using petroleum jelly on your baby's skin may help prevent development of atopic dermatitis.
Take a daily bath or shower. Use warm, rather than hot, water and limit your bath or shower to about 10 minutes.
Use a gentle, nonsoap cleanser. Choose a cleanser that's free of dyes, alcohols and fragrance. For young children, you usually need only warm water to get them clean — no soap or bubble bath needed. Soap can be especially irritating to the skin of young children. For people of any age, deodorant soaps and antibacterial soaps can remove too much of the skin's natural oils and dry the skin. Don't scrub the skin with a washcloth or loofah.
Pat dry. After bathing, gently pat the skin with a soft towel. Apply moisturizer while your skin is still damp (within three minutes).
The triggers for atopic dermatitis vary widely from person to person. Try to identify and avoid irritants that trigger your eczema. In general, avoid anything that causes an itch because scratching often triggers a flare.
Common triggers for atopic dermatitis include:
Rough wool fabric
Dry skin
Skin infection
Heat and sweat
Stress
Cleaning products
Dust mites and pet dander
Mold
Pollen
Smoke from tobacco
Cold and dry air
Fragrances
Other irritating chemicals
Infants and children may have flares triggered by eating certain foods, such as eggs and cow's milk. Talk with your child's health care provider about identifying potential food allergies.
Once you understand what triggers your eczema, talk with your health care provider about how to manage your symptoms and prevent flares.
Condition name:Atrial fibrillation
Overview of Atrial fibrillation:
Atrial fibrillation (AFib) is an irregular and often very rapid heart rhythm. An irregular heart rhythm is called an arrhythmia. AFib can lead to blood clots in the heart. The condition also increases the risk of stroke, heart failure and other heart-related complications.
During atrial fibrillation, the heart's upper chambers — called the atria — beat chaotically and irregularly. They beat out of sync with the lower heart chambers, called the ventricles. For many people, AFib may have no symptoms. But AFib may cause a fast, pounding heartbeat, shortness of breath or light-headedness.
Episodes of atrial fibrillation may come and go, or they may be persistent. AFib itself usually isn't life-threatening. But it's a serious medical condition that needs proper treatment to prevent stroke.
Treatment for atrial fibrillation may include medicines, therapy to shock the heart back to a regular rhythm and procedures to block faulty heart signals.
A person with atrial fibrillation also may have a related heart rhythm problem called atrial flutter. The treatments for AFib and atrial flutter are similar.
Home Remedies for Atrial fibrillation:
Following a heart-healthy lifestyle can help prevent or treat conditions that can lead to atrial fibrillation (AFib). The following changes are recommended to improve heart health:
Eat healthy foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Exercise and stay active. Regular physical activity helps control diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure â€” all risk factors for heart disease. Try to get 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you need help quitting, talk to your health care team.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with your care provider to set realistic goals for weight.
Control blood pressure. Get your blood pressure checked at least every two years if you're 18 and older. If you have risk factors for heart disease or are over age 40, you may need more-frequent checks. If you have high blood pressure, follow your treatment plan as directed.
Get your cholesterol checked. Ask your health care team how often you need a cholesterol test. Lifestyle changes and medicines may be recommended to control high cholesterol.
Limit alcohol. Binge drinking (having five drinks in two hours for men or four drinks for women) can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation. In some people, even lower amounts of alcohol can trigger AFib.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily.
It's also important to have regular health checkups. Tell your health care team if your AFib symptoms get worse.
More Information
Atrial fibrillation care at Mayo Clinic
Planning to travel with atrial fibrillation?
Should I make changes to my diet if I've been diagnosed with atrial fibrillation?
Symptoms for Atrial fibrillation :
Symptoms of AFib may include:
Feelings of a fast, fluttering or pounding heartbeat, called palpitations.
Chest pain.
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Lightheadedness.
Reduced ability to exercise.
Shortness of breath.
Weakness.
Some people with atrial fibrillation (AFib) don't notice any symptoms.
Atrial fibrillation may be:
Occasional, also called paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. AFib symptoms come and go. The symptoms usually last for a few minutes to hours. Some people have symptoms for as long as a week. The episodes can happen repeatedly. Symptoms might go away on their own. Some people with occasional AFib need treatment.
Persistent. The irregular heartbeat is constant. The heart rhythm does not reset on its own. If symptoms occur, medical treatment is needed to correct the heart rhythm.
Long-standing persistent. This type of AFib is constant and lasts longer than 12 months. Medicines or a procedure are needed to correct the irregular heartbeat.
Permanent. In this type of atrial fibrillation, the irregular heart rhythm can't be reset. Medicines are needed to control the heart rate and to prevent blood clots.
Causes for Atrial fibrillation :
To understand the causes of atrial fibrillation (AFib), it may be helpful to know how the heart typically beats.
The heart has four chambers:
The two upper chambers are called the atria.
The two lower chambers are called the ventricles.
Inside the upper right heart chamber is a group of cells called the sinus node. The sinus node makes the signals that starts each heartbeat.
The signals move across the upper heart chambers. Next, the signals arrive at a group of cells called the AV node, where they usually slow down. The signals then go to the lower heart chambers.
In a healthy heart, this signaling process usually goes smoothly. The resting heart rate is typically 60 to 100 beats a minute.
But in atrial fibrillation, the signals in the upper chambers of the heart are chaotic. As a result, the upper chambers tremble or shake. The AV node is flooded with signals trying to get through to the lower heart chambers. This causes a fast and irregular heart rhythm.
In people with AFib, the heart rate may range from 100 to 175 beats a minute.
Risk Factors for Atrial fibrillation:
Things that can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation (AFib) include:
Age. The risk of AFib increases as you grow older.
Caffeine, nicotine or illegal drug use. Caffeine, nicotine and some illegal drugs — such as amphetamines and cocaine — can cause your heart to beat faster. Use of these substances may lead to the development of more-serious arrhythmias.
Drinking too much alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can affect the electrical signals in the heart. This can increase the risk of atrial fibrillation.
Changes in the level of body minerals. Minerals in the blood called electrolytes — such as potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium — help the heart beat. If these substances are too low or too high, irregular heartbeats may occur.
Family history. An increased risk of atrial fibrillation occurs in some families.
Heart problems or heart surgery. Coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and heart problems present at birth increase the risk of AFib. A history of heart attack or heart surgery also makes a person more likely to get the condition.
High blood pressure. Having high blood pressure increases the risk of getting coronary artery disease. Over time, high blood pressure may cause part of the heart to become stiff and thick. This can change how heartbeat signals travel through the heart.
Obesity. People who have obesity are at higher risk of developing atrial fibrillation.
Other long-term health conditions. You may be more likely to get AFib if you have diabetes, chronic kidney disease, lung disease or sleep apnea.
Some medicines and supplements. Some prescription medicines and certain cough and cold remedies bought without a prescription can cause irregular heartbeats.
Thyroid disease. Having an overactive thyroid gland can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats.
Complications for Atrial fibrillation:
Blood clots are a dangerous complication of atrial fibrillation (AFib). Blood clots can lead to stroke.
The risk of stroke from AFib increases as you grow older. Other health conditions also may increase the risk of a stroke due to AFib. These conditions include:
High blood pressure.
Diabetes.
Heart failure.
Some types of heart valve disease.
Blood thinners are commonly prescribed to prevent blood clots and strokes in people with atrial fibrillation.
Preventions for Atrial fibrillation
Healthy lifestyle choices can reduce the risk of heart disease and may prevent atrial fibrillation (AFib). Here are some basic heart-healthy tips:
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Don't smoke or use tobacco.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week unless your health care team says not to.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Condition name:Atrial flutter
Overview of Atrial flutter:
Atrial flutter is a type of heart rhythm disorder, called an arrhythmia. It is similar to atrial fibrillation (AFib). But in atrial flutter the heart rhythm is more organized and less chaotic than in AFib. A person can have both atrial flutter and AFib.
Atrial flutter may not cause symptoms. But some people may have a pounding, rapid heartbeat and chest pain. Fainting or almost fainting also may happen. Treatment for atrial flutter may include medicines and a heart procedure.
There are no home remedies available for Atrial flutter in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atrial flutter :
People with atrial flutter may not have symptoms. The irregular heartbeat may be found during a health checkup for another reason.
If atrial flutter symptoms happen, they may include:
A pounding or racing feeling in the chest.
Chest pain.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Shortness of breath.
Feeling very tired.
Causes for Atrial flutter :
Changes in the heart's electrical system cause atrial flutter. The heart's electrical system controls the heartbeat. Some health conditions or heart surgery can change how electrical signals travel through the heart and cause atrial flutter.
The movement of the heart's signals make the heart squeeze and pump blood. Usually, this process goes smoothly. The typical resting heart rate is about 60 to 100 beats a minute. But in atrial flutter, the heart's upper chambers beat too quickly. This causes the heart to beat in a fast, but usually organized, way.
Risk Factors for Atrial flutter:
Some health conditions increase the risk of atrial flutter. They include:
Heart failure.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, also called COPD.
Blood clot in the lungs, called a pulmonary embolism.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Other risk factors for atrial flutter are:
Getting older.
Recent heart surgery.
Complications for Atrial flutter:
A complication of atrial flutter is atrial fibrillation (AFib). About half of people with atrial flutter get AFib within three years. AFib increases the risk of blood clots and strokes.
Other complications of atrial flutter are:
Heart failure.
Stroke.
Heart attack.
Preventions for Atrial flutter
Lifestyle changes help keep the heart healthy. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke.
Eat healthy foods such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Eat less salt and saturated fats.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Keep a healthy weight.
Use less or do not use caffeine and alcohol.
Reduce and manage stress.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep. Adults should try to get 7 to 9 hours daily.
Condition name:Atrial septal defect (ASD)
Overview of Atrial septal defect (ASD):
An atrial septal defect (ASD) is a heart condition that you're born with. That means it's a congenital heart defect. People with an ASD have a hole between the upper heart chambers. The hole increases the amount of blood going through the lungs.
Small atrial septal defects might be found by chance and never cause a concern. Others might close during infancy or early childhood.
A large, long-term atrial septal defect can damage the heart and lungs. Surgery may be needed to repair an atrial septal defect and to prevent complications.
There are no home remedies available for Atrial septal defect (ASD) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atrial septal defect (ASD) :
A baby born with an atrial septal defect (ASD) may not have symptoms. Symptoms may begin in adulthood.
Atrial septal defect symptoms may include:
Shortness of breath, especially when exercising.
Tiredness, especially with activity.
Swelling of the legs, feet or belly area.
Irregular heartbeats, also called arrhythmias.
Skipped heartbeats or feelings of a quick, pounding or fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Causes for Atrial septal defect (ASD) :
The cause of atrial septal defect is not clear. The problem affects the structure of the heart. It happens as the baby's heart is forming during pregnancy.
The following may play a role in the cause of congenital heart defects such as atrial septal defect:
Changes in genes.
Some medical conditions.
Certain medicines.
Smoking.
Alcohol misuse.
Risk Factors for Atrial septal defect (ASD):
Atrial septal defect (ASD) occurs as the baby's heart is forming during pregnancy. It is a congenital heart defect. Things that may increase a baby's risk of atrial septal defect or other heart problems present at birth include:
German measles, also called rubella, during the first few months of pregnancy.
Diabetes.
Lupus.
Alcohol or tobacco use during pregnancy.
Cocaine use during pregnancy.
Use of some medicines during pregnancy, including those to treat seizures and mood conditions.
Some types of congenital heart defects occur in families. This means they are inherited. Tell your care team if you or someone in your family had a heart problem present at birth. Screening by a genetic counselor can help show the risk of certain heart defects in future children.
Complications for Atrial septal defect (ASD):
A small atrial septal defect might never cause any concern. Small atrial septal defects often close during infancy.
Larger atrial septal defects can cause serious complications, including:
Right-sided heart failure.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Stroke.
Early death.
High blood pressure in the lung arteries, called pulmonary hypertension.
Pulmonary hypertension can cause permanent lung damage. This complication, called Eisenmenger syndrome, most often occurs over many years. It sometimes happens in people with large atrial septal defects.
Treatment can prevent or help manage many of these complications.
Preventions for Atrial septal defect (ASD)
Because the cause of atrial septal defect (ASD) is not clear, prevention may not be possible. But getting good prenatal care is important. If you were born with an ASD, make an appointment for a health checkup before becoming pregnant.
During this visit:
Talk about current health conditions and medicines. It's important to closely control diabetes, lupus and other health conditions during pregnancy. Your healthcare professional may suggest changing doses of some medicines or stopping them before pregnancy.
Review your family medical history. If you have a family history of congenital heart defects or other genetic conditions, you might talk with a genetic counselor to find your risks.
Ask about getting tested to see if you've had German measles, also called rubella. Rubella in a pregnant person has been linked to some types of congenital heart defects in the baby. If you haven't already had German measles or the vaccine, get the recommended vaccinations.
Condition name:Atrial tachycardia
Overview of Atrial tachycardia:
Atrial tachycardia is an irregular heartbeat, called an arrhythmia. It's a type of supraventricular tachycardia.
During an atrial tachycardia episode, the heart beats more than 100 times a minute. Then it returns to a heart rate of around 60 to 80 beats a minute. An episode may start slowly, or it may start suddenly and quickly. It can cause a pounding or racing heartbeat, lightheadedness, dizziness, and fainting.
Atrial tachycardia is common. It may happen in people who have had heart surgery or who are pregnant. Infections, stimulant medicines or alcohol use may trigger it.
There are no home remedies available for Atrial tachycardia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atrial tachycardia :
The main symptom of atrial tachycardia is a very fast heartbeat. Typically during atrial tachycardia, the heart beats 150 to 200 times a minute. The fast heartbeat may come and go suddenly, or it can be ongoing.
Other symptoms of atrial tachycardia may include:
Pounding or fluttering feelings in the chest or neck, called palpitations.
Chest pain.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Lightheadedness or dizziness.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
Weakness or extreme tiredness.
Nausea.
Some people with atrial tachycardia do not notice symptoms.
Atrial tachycardia symptoms may be hard to see in infants and young children. Symptoms of atrial tachycardia in children can include:
Poor feeding.
Sweating.
Irritability.
Changes in skin color.
If your infant or young child has any of these symptoms, talk with a healthcare professional.
Causes for Atrial tachycardia :
Atrial tachycardia is caused by faulty electrical signals in the heart. These electrical signals control the heartbeat.
In atrial tachycardia, a change in these signals makes the heartbeat start too early in the heart's upper chambers. This causes the heart to beat too fast. Then the heart is not able to fill with blood properly.
Risk Factors for Atrial tachycardia:
Anyone can get atrial tachycardia. But some health conditions or treatments can increase your risk. Atrial tachycardia risk factors include:
Heart conditions such as coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and other heart diseases.
Heart failure.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Previous heart surgery.
Sleep apnea.
Thyroid disease.
Lung disease, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Diabetes.
Some medicines, including those used to treat asthma, allergies and colds.
Other things that may increase the risk of atrial tachycardia include:
Emotional stress.
Too much caffeine.
Heavy alcohol use, defined as more than 15 drinks a week for men and eight or more drinks a week for women.
Smoking and nicotine use.
Stimulant drugs, including cocaine and methamphetamine.
Complications for Atrial tachycardia:
Atrial tachycardia isn't usually life-threatening. However, it can be a concern if you have heart damage or another heart condition. If the very fast heartbeat continues, it may weaken the heart muscle.
There are no preventive measures available for Atrial tachycardia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT)
Overview of Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT):
Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) is a type of irregular heartbeat, also called an arrhythmia. It is the most common type of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT).
People with AVNRT have a very fast heartbeat that often starts and ends suddenly. In AVNRT, the heart beats more than 100 times a minute. The condition is due to a change in heart signaling.
AVNRT tends to occur more often in young women. But anyone can have it at any age. AVNRT may not need treatment. When treatment is needed, it may include specific actions or movements, medicines, or a heart procedure.
There are no home remedies available for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) :
A very fast heartbeat is the most common symptom of atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT). In AVNRT, the heart can beat between 120 to 280 times a minute. The fast heartbeat usually starts suddenly.
AVNRT does not always cause symptoms. When symptoms do show up, they may include:
A pounding feeling in the neck.
Pounding or fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Chest pressure, tightness or pain.
Dizziness or lightheadedness.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
Weakness or extreme tiredness.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Symptoms of AVNRT may be mild in children. Some symptoms include sweating, trouble feeding, changes in skin color and a fast heartbeat.
Causes for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) :
Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) is caused by faulty electrical signaling in the heart. Electrical signals control the heartbeat.
Usually, electrical signals in the heart follow a specific pathway. In AVNRT, there is an extra signaling pathway, called a reentrant circuit. The extra pathway makes the heart beat too early. This stops the heart from pumping blood like it should.
Healthcare professionals aren't sure why some people have the extra pathway that causes AVNRT. Sometimes, changes in the heart's structure may cause it.
Risk Factors for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT):
Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) is more common in young women. But anyone can get it.
Some health conditions or treatments may increase the risk of AVNRT. These include:
Coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and other heart diseases.
Heart failure.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Previous heart, lung or throat surgery.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Thyroid disease.
Lung diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Diabetes that is not controlled.
Some medicines, including those used to treat asthma, allergies and colds.
Other things that may increase the risk of AVNRT include:
Emotional stress.
Caffeine.
Excessive alcohol use, which is defined as 15 or more drinks a week for men and eight or more drinks a week for women.
Smoking and using nicotine.
Stimulant drugs, including cocaine and methamphetamine.
Complications for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT):
Possible complications of AVNRT are:
Worsening of existing heart disease.
Sudden stopping of all heart activity, called sudden cardiac arrest.
There are no preventive measures available for Atrioventricular nodal reentry tachycardia (AVNRT) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children
Overview of Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children:
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a chronic condition that affects millions of children and often continues into adulthood. ADHD includes a combination of persistent problems, such as difficulty sustaining attention, hyperactivity and impulsive behavior.
Children with ADHD may also struggle with low self-esteem, troubled relationships and poor performance in school. Symptoms sometimes lessen with age. However, some people never completely outgrow their ADHD symptoms. But they can learn strategies to be successful.
While treatment won't cure ADHD, it can help a great deal with symptoms. Treatment typically involves medications and behavioral interventions. Early diagnosis and treatment can make a big difference in outcome.
Home Remedies for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children:
Because ADHD is complex and each person with ADHD is unique, it's hard to make recommendations that work for every child. But some of the following suggestions may help create an environment in which your child can succeed.
Children at home
Show your child lots of affection. Children need to hear that they're loved and appreciated. Focusing only on the negative aspects of your child's behavior can harm your relationship and affect self-confidence and self-esteem. If your child has a hard time accepting verbal signs of affection, a smile, a pat on the shoulder or a hug can show you care. Look for behaviors for which you can compliment your child regularly.
Find ways to improve self-esteem. Children with ADHD often do well with art projects, music or dance lessons, or martial arts classes. Choose activities based on their interests and abilities. All children have special talents and interests that can be fostered. Small frequent successes help build self-esteem.
Use simple words and demonstrate when giving your child directions. Speak slowly and quietly and be very specific and concrete. Give one direction at a time. Stop and make eye contact with your child before and while you're giving directions.
Identify difficult situations. Try to avoid situations that are difficult for your child, such as sitting through long presentations or shopping in malls and stores where the array of merchandise can be overwhelming.
Use timeouts or appropriate consequences for discipline. Start with firm, loving discipline that rewards good behavior and discourages negative behavior. Timeouts should be relatively brief, but long enough for your child to regain control. The idea is to interrupt and defuse out-of-control behavior. Children can also be expected to accept the results of the choices they make.
Work on organization. Help your child organize and maintain a daily assignment and activities notebook or chart and be sure your child has a quiet place to study. Group objects in the child's room and store them in clearly marked spaces. Try to help your child keep his or her environment organized and uncluttered.
Try to keep a regular schedule for meals, naps and bedtime. Children with ADHD have a hard time accepting and adjusting to change. Use a big calendar to mark special activities that will be coming up and everyday chores. Avoid or at least warn children of sudden transitions from one activity to another.
Encourage social interaction. Help your child learn social skills by modeling, recognizing and rewarding positive interactions with peers.
Adopt healthy lifestyle habits. Make sure your child is rested. Try to keep your child from becoming overtired because fatigue often makes ADHD symptoms worse. It's important that your child eat a balanced diet for healthy development. In addition to its health benefits, regular exercise may have a positive effect on behavior when added to treatment.
Children in school
Learn all you can about ADHD and opportunities that are available to help your child be successful. You are your child's best advocate.
Ask about school programs. Schools are required by law to have a program to make sure children who have a disability that interferes with learning get the support they need. Your child may be eligible for additional services offered under federal laws: Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 or the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). These can include evaluation, curriculum adjustments, changes in classroom setup, modified teaching techniques, study skills instruction, use of computers, and increased collaboration between parents and teachers.
Talk to your child's teachers. Stay in close communication with teachers and support their efforts to help your child in the classroom. Be sure teachers closely monitor your child's work, provide positive feedback, and are flexible and patient. Ask that they be very clear about their instructions and expectations.
Symptoms for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children :
The primary features of ADHD include inattention and hyperactive-impulsive behavior. ADHD symptoms start before age 12, and in some children, they're noticeable as early as 3 years of age. ADHD symptoms can be mild, moderate or severe, and they may continue into adulthood.
ADHD occurs more often in males than in females, and behaviors can be different in boys and girls. For example, boys may be more hyperactive and girls may tend to be quietly inattentive.
There are three subtypes of ADHD:
Predominantly inattentive. The majority of symptoms fall under inattention.
Predominantly hyperactive/impulsive. The majority of symptoms are hyperactive and impulsive.
Combined. This is a mix of inattentive symptoms and hyperactive/impulsive symptoms.
Causes for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children :
While the exact cause of ADHD is not clear, research efforts continue. Factors that may be involved in the development of ADHD include genetics, the environment or problems with the central nervous system at key moments in development.
Risk Factors for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children:
Risk factors for ADHD may include:
Blood relatives, such as a parent or sibling, with ADHD or another mental health disorder
Exposure to environmental toxins — such as lead, found mainly in paint and pipes in older buildings
Maternal drug use, alcohol use or smoking during pregnancy
Premature birth
Although sugar is a popular suspect in causing hyperactivity, there's no reliable proof of this. Many issues in childhood can lead to difficulty sustaining attention, but that's not the same as ADHD.
Complications for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children:
ADHD can make life difficult for children. Children with ADHD:
Often struggle in the classroom, which can lead to academic failure and judgment by other children and adults
Tend to have more accidents and injuries of all kinds than do children who don't have ADHD
Tend to have poor self-esteem
Are more likely to have trouble interacting with and being accepted by peers and adults
Are at increased risk of alcohol and drug abuse and other delinquent behavior
Preventions for Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children
To help reduce your child's risk of ADHD:
During pregnancy, avoid anything that could harm fetal development. For example, don't drink alcohol, use recreational drugs or smoke cigarettes.
Protect your child from exposure to pollutants and toxins, including cigarette smoke and lead paint.
Limit screen time. Although still unproved, it may be prudent for children to avoid excessive exposure to TV and video games in the first five years of life.
Condition name:Atypical hyperplasia of the breast
Overview of Atypical hyperplasia of the breast:
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast is the development of precancerous cells in the breast. Atypical hyperplasia causes a buildup of cells in the breast tissue. When viewed with a microscope, the cells look different from typical breast cells.
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast isn't breast cancer. But it's a sign that you have an increased risk of breast cancer in the future.
Your healthcare team creates a plan to help you manage your risk of breast cancer. Often this includes more-frequent breast cancer screening tests. You also might consider medicines to reduce breast cancer risk.
There are no home remedies available for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast :
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast usually doesn't cause any symptoms.
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast is typically found during a breast biopsy. A breast biopsy is a procedure to remove some breast cells for testing. It's often recommended if something concerning is found on a mammogram or an ultrasound. A biopsy also might be done to investigate a breast concern, such as a lump.
Causes for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast :
It's not clear what causes atypical hyperplasia of the breast.
Atypical hyperplasia of the breast happens when cells in the breast tissue develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cell to make many more cells. This causes a buildup of cells in the breast. Healthcare professionals call this buildup hyperplasia. The changes also turn the cells into atypical cells. This means that the cells look different from typical cells.
Atypical hyperplasia is thought to be a very early step in the process that turns healthy cells into cancer cells. In theory, if atypical hyperplasia cells are allowed to continue growing, they could get more DNA changes and become cancer cells. More research is needed to understand how this happens.
Atypical hyperplasia can happen in the breast ducts or the breast lobules:
Atypical ductal hyperplasia describes a growth of atypical cells within the breast ducts. The breast ducts are tubes that can carry breast milk to the nipple. This type of atypical hyperplasia is most common.
Atypical lobular hyperplasia describes a growth of atypical cells within the breast lobules. The breast lobules are glands that can make breast milk. This type of atypical hyperplasia is less common.
Both types of atypical hyperplasia increase the risk of breast cancer. Treatment for both types is similar.
Risk Factors for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast:
There are no specific risk factors for atypical hyperplasia of the breast. Atypical hyperplasia is one of several conditions that cause a growth of cells in the breast that isn't cancerous. These conditions are sometimes called benign breast diseases. Healthcare professionals have found risk factors for benign breast diseases. They include:
A family history of breast cancer. If a parent, sibling or child had breast cancer, your risk of being diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia of the breast or another benign breast disease before menopause is increased.
Menopausal hormone therapy. Taking certain hormone therapy medicines to control the symptoms of menopause may increase the risk of atypical hyperplasia and other benign breast diseases.
Complications for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast:
If you've been diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia of the breast, you have an increased risk of getting breast cancer in the future. The risk of breast cancer in those with atypical hyperplasia is about four times higher than in those who don't have atypical hyperplasia. The risk is similar for atypical ductal hyperplasia and atypical lobular hyperplasia.
Studies of women with atypical hyperplasia have found that the risk of breast cancer increases over time. At 25 years after diagnosis, about 30% of women with atypical hyperplasia may have breast cancer. Put another way, for every 100 women diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia, 30 can be expected to have breast cancer 25 years after diagnosis. And 70 will not develop breast cancer.
Preventions for Atypical hyperplasia of the breast
It's not clear whether there's anything that can prevent atypical hyperplasia of the breast. The same things that help lower the risk of breast cancer may help lower the risk of atypical hyperplasia. Things you can do to lower your risk of breast cancer include:
Condition name:Auditory processing disorder
Overview of Auditory processing disorder:
Auditory processing disorder, also called APD, is a type of hearing loss caused by something affecting the part of the brain that processes how you hear. Ear damage causes other types of hearing loss.
APD is also sometimes called central auditory processing disorder (CAPD). It can happen in anyone. But it most often happens in children and older adults.
Many conditions can affect how well a person understands what they hear, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or autism. But these conditions are different from auditory processing disorder, although they can appear with APD. APD also can happen with other types of hearing loss.
Auditory processing disorder has no cure. But treatments can help you hear better.
Home Remedies for Auditory processing disorder:
There are simple steps you can take to manage auditory processing disorder (APD). For instance:
Try using a remote microphone to improve how well you can hear in a noisy room.
Move closer to the person who is speaking.
Think about covering surfaces that make sounds echo, such as open or empty spaces.
Move away from other sources of noise, such as a fan.
In a class or at a meeting, ask someone to take notes for you or get a written copy of what was said.
Ask for anything important to be in writing.
Use subtitles when watching TV.
Symptoms for Auditory processing disorder :
Symptoms of auditory processing disorder (APD) can be subtle. Symptoms can include having trouble with:
Telling where sound is coming from.
Understanding words that are spoken quickly or in a noisy room.
Paying attention.
Reading and spelling.
Following directions unless they are short and simple.
Learning a new language.
Singing or enjoying music.
Understanding and remembering spoken information.
If you have APD, you also might:
Take longer to reply to someone who is talking to you.
Often need others to repeat themselves.
Not understand sarcasm or jokes.
APD is often seen with attention, language and learning issues like those seen in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD.
Causes for Auditory processing disorder :
The cause of auditory processing disorder (APD) is sometimes unknown. APD can be linked to many conditions. In older adults, conditions might include stroke and head trauma. In children, APD can be linked to issues at birth, such as low birth weight or early birth, or repeated ear infections.
In typical hearing, the brain's auditory center takes the sound waves sent from the ears and turns them into sounds you know. But with auditory processing disorder (APD), the auditory part of the brain can't do this.
Risk Factors for Auditory processing disorder:
Factors that increase your risk of auditory processing disorder (APD) include:
Aging.
Stroke.
Head trauma.
Lead poisoning.
Seizure disorders.
Issues linked to birth, such as an early birth, low birth weight or a pregnant person using alcohol, drugs or tobacco.
Repeated ear infections, especially at a young age.
Complications for Auditory processing disorder:
Auditory processing disorder (APD) complications include:
Trouble understanding what people are saying.
Trouble taking part in activities.
Feeling isolated and lonely.
Trouble reading and writing, in children.
Trouble doing well in school.
Feeling depressed.
There are no preventive measures available for Auditory processing disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Autism spectrum disorder
Overview of Autism spectrum disorder:
Autism spectrum disorder is a condition related to brain development that impacts how a person perceives and socializes with others, causing problems in social interaction and communication. The disorder also includes limited and repetitive patterns of behavior. The term "spectrum" in autism spectrum disorder refers to the wide range of symptoms and severity.
Autism spectrum disorder includes conditions that were previously considered separate — autism, Asperger's syndrome, childhood disintegrative disorder and an unspecified form of pervasive developmental disorder. Some people still use the term "Asperger's syndrome," which is generally thought to be at the mild end of autism spectrum disorder.
Autism spectrum disorder begins in early childhood and eventually causes problems functioning in society — socially, in school and at work, for example. Often children show symptoms of autism within the first year. A small number of children appear to develop normally in the first year, and then go through a period of regression between 18 and 24 months of age when they develop autism symptoms.
While there is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, intensive, early treatment can make a big difference in the lives of many children.
There are no home remedies available for Autism spectrum disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Autism spectrum disorder :
Some children show signs of autism spectrum disorder in early infancy, such as reduced eye contact, lack of response to their name or indifference to caregivers. Other children may develop normally for the first few months or years of life, but then suddenly become withdrawn or aggressive or lose language skills they've already acquired. Signs usually are seen by age 2 years.
Each child with autism spectrum disorder is likely to have a unique pattern of behavior and level of severity — from low functioning to high functioning.
Some children with autism spectrum disorder have difficulty learning, and some have signs of lower than normal intelligence. Other children with the disorder have normal to high intelligence — they learn quickly, yet have trouble communicating and applying what they know in everyday life and adjusting to social situations.
Because of the unique mixture of symptoms in each child, severity can sometimes be difficult to determine. It's generally based on the level of impairments and how they impact the ability to function.
Below are some common signs shown by people who have autism spectrum disorder.
Causes for Autism spectrum disorder :
Autism spectrum disorder has no single known cause. Given the complexity of the disorder, and the fact that symptoms and severity vary, there are probably many causes. Both genetics and environment may play a role.
Genetics. Several different genes appear to be involved in autism spectrum disorder. For some children, autism spectrum disorder can be associated with a genetic disorder, such as Rett syndrome or fragile X syndrome. For other children, genetic changes (mutations) may increase the risk of autism spectrum disorder. Still other genes may affect brain development or the way that brain cells communicate, or they may determine the severity of symptoms. Some genetic mutations seem to be inherited, while others occur spontaneously.
Environmental factors. Researchers are currently exploring whether factors such as viral infections, medications or complications during pregnancy, or air pollutants play a role in triggering autism spectrum disorder.
Risk Factors for Autism spectrum disorder:
The number of children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder is rising. It's not clear whether this is due to better detection and reporting or a real increase in the number of cases, or both.
Autism spectrum disorder affects children of all races and nationalities, but certain factors increase a child's risk. These may include:
Your child's sex. Boys are about four times more likely to develop autism spectrum disorder than girls are.
Family history. Families who have one child with autism spectrum disorder have an increased risk of having another child with the disorder. It's also not uncommon for parents or relatives of a child with autism spectrum disorder to have minor problems with social or communication skills themselves or to engage in certain behaviors typical of the disorder.
Other disorders. Children with certain medical conditions have a higher than normal risk of autism spectrum disorder or autism-like symptoms. Examples include fragile X syndrome, an inherited disorder that causes intellectual problems; tuberous sclerosis, a condition in which benign tumors develop in the brain; and Rett syndrome, a genetic condition occurring almost exclusively in girls, which causes slowing of head growth, intellectual disability and loss of purposeful hand use.
Extremely preterm babies. Babies born before 26 weeks of gestation may have a greater risk of autism spectrum disorder.
Parents' ages. There may be a connection between children born to older parents and autism spectrum disorder, but more research is necessary to establish this link.
Complications for Autism spectrum disorder:
Problems with social interactions, communication and behavior can lead to:
Problems in school and with successful learning
Employment problems
Inability to live independently
Social isolation
Stress within the family
Victimization and being bullied
Preventions for Autism spectrum disorder
There's no way to prevent autism spectrum disorder, but there are treatment options. Early diagnosis and intervention is most helpful and can improve behavior, skills and language development. However, intervention is helpful at any age. Though children usually don't outgrow autism spectrum disorder symptoms, they may learn to function well.
Condition name:Autoimmune hepatitis
Overview of Autoimmune hepatitis:
Autoimmune hepatitis is a liver disease that happens when the body's immune system attacks the liver. This can cause swelling, irritation and damage to the liver. The exact cause of autoimmune hepatitis is unclear, but genetic and environmental factors appear to interact over time to trigger the disease.
Untreated autoimmune hepatitis can lead to scarring of the liver, called cirrhosis. It can also eventually lead to liver failure. When diagnosed and treated early, however, autoimmune hepatitis often can be controlled with medicines that suppress the immune system.
A liver transplant may be an option when autoimmune hepatitis doesn't respond to medicines or liver disease becomes advanced.
There are no home remedies available for Autoimmune hepatitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Autoimmune hepatitis :
Symptoms of autoimmune hepatitis vary from person to person and may come on suddenly. Some people have few, if any, recognized problems in the early stages of the disease, whereas others experience symptoms that may include:
Fatigue.
Belly discomfort.
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice. Depending on skin color, this change may be harder or easier to see.
An enlarged liver.
Irregular blood vessels on the skin, called spider angiomas.
Skin rash.
Joint pain.
Loss of menstrual periods.
Causes for Autoimmune hepatitis :
Autoimmune hepatitis occurs when the body's immune system, which usually attacks viruses, bacteria and other causes of disease, instead targets the liver. This attack on the liver can lead to long-lasting inflammation and serious damage to liver cells. Just why the body turns against itself is unclear, but researchers think autoimmune hepatitis could be caused by the interaction of genes controlling immune system function and exposure to viruses or medicines.
Risk Factors for Autoimmune hepatitis:
Factors that may increase your risk of autoimmune hepatitis include:
Being female. Although both males and females can develop autoimmune hepatitis, the disease is most common in females.
Genetics. Evidence suggests that a predisposition to autoimmune hepatitis may run in families.
Having an autoimmune disease. People who already have an autoimmune disease, such as celiac disease, rheumatoid arthritis or hyperthyroidism (Graves' disease or Hashimoto thyroiditis), may be more likely to develop autoimmune hepatitis.
Complications for Autoimmune hepatitis:
Autoimmune hepatitis that goes untreated can cause permanent scarring of the liver tissue, known as cirrhosis. Complications of cirrhosis include:
Enlarged veins in the esophagus, called esophageal varices. The portal vein carries blood from the intestine to the liver. When circulation through the portal vein is blocked, blood may back up into other blood vessels, mainly those in the stomach and esophagus.
These blood vessels have thin walls. And because they become filled with more blood than they're meant to carry, they're likely to bleed. Massive bleeding in the esophagus or stomach from these blood vessels is a life-threatening emergency that needs immediate medical care.
Fluid in the abdomen, called ascites (uh-SY-teez). Liver disease can cause large amounts of fluid to build up in the belly. Ascites can be uncomfortable and may interfere with breathing. It's usually a sign of advanced cirrhosis.
Liver failure. Liver failure happens when extensive damage to liver cells makes it not possible for the liver to function well. At this point, a liver transplant is needed.
Liver cancer. People with cirrhosis have an increased risk of liver cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Autoimmune hepatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Autoimmune pancreatitis
Overview of Autoimmune pancreatitis:
Autoimmune pancreatitis is an inflammation in the pancreas. It may be caused by the immune system attacking the pancreas. Autoimmune pancreatitis also is called AIP. Two subtypes of AIP are now recognized, type 1 and type 2.
Type 1 AIP is called IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD). This type often affects multiple organs, including the pancreas, bile ducts in the liver, salivary glands, kidneys and lymph nodes.
Type 2 AIP seems to affect only the pancreas, although about one-third of people with type 2 AIP have associated inflammatory bowel disease.
Type 1 AIP can be mistakenly diagnosed as pancreatic cancer. The two conditions have overlapping symptoms, but very different treatments, so it is very important to distinguish one from the other.
There are no home remedies available for Autoimmune pancreatitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Autoimmune pancreatitis :
Autoimmune pancreatitis, also called AIP, is difficult to diagnose. Often, it doesn't cause any symptoms. Symptoms of type 1 AIP are like those of pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic cancer symptoms can include:
Dark urine.
Pale stools or stools that float in the toilet.
Yellow skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Pain in your upper belly or middle part of your back.
Nausea and vomiting.
Weakness or extreme tiredness.
Loss of appetite or feelings of fullness.
Weight loss for no known reason.
The most common sign of type 1 AIP is painless jaundice. About 80% of people with type 1 AIP have painless jaundice. This is caused by blocked bile ducts. People with type 2 AIP can have repeat episodes of acute pancreatitis. Pain in the upper abdomen, a common symptom of pancreatic cancer, is often absent in autoimmune pancreatitis.
Differences between type 1 and type 2 AIP are:
In type 1 AIP, the disease may affect other organs in addition to the pancreas. Type 2 AIP affects only the pancreas. Type 2 disease also is associated with another autoimmune condition called inflammatory bowel disease.
Type 1 AIP mostly affects men in the sixth to seventh decade of life.
Type 2 AIP affects both men and women equally and has a younger age of onset compared with type 1 AIP.
Type 1 AIP is more likely to relapse after treatment is discontinued.
Causes for Autoimmune pancreatitis :
Experts don't know what causes autoimmune pancreatitis, but it is thought to be caused by the body's immune system attacking healthy body tissue. This is known as an autoimmune disease.
Risk Factors for Autoimmune pancreatitis:
The two types of AIP happen with different frequency in different parts of the world. In the United States, about 80% of people with autoimmune pancreatitis, also called AIP, have type 1.
People with type 1 AIP often:
Are over age 60.
Are male.
People with type 2 AIP:
Are often one or two decades younger than those with type 1.
Are as likely to be female as male.
Are more likely to have inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis.
Complications for Autoimmune pancreatitis:
Autoimmune pancreatitis can cause a variety of complications.
Pancreatic exocrine insufficiency. AIP may affect the ability of your pancreas to make enough enzymes. Symptoms may include diarrhea, weight loss, metabolic bone disease, and vitamin or mineral deficiency.
Diabetes. Because the pancreas is the organ that produces insulin, damage to it may cause diabetes. You may need treatment with oral medicine or insulin.
Pancreatic and bile duct narrowing, called stricture.
Pancreatic calcifications or stones.
Treatments for autoimmune pancreatitis, such as long-term steroid use, can cause complications. However, even with these complications, people who are treated for autoimmune pancreatitis have a typical life expectancy.
There is no established association between AIP and pancreatic cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Autoimmune pancreatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Back pain
Overview of Back pain:
Back pain is one of the most common reasons people seek medical help or miss work. Back pain is a leading cause of disability worldwide.
Fortunately, measures can help prevent or relieve most back pain episodes, especially for people younger than age 60. If prevention fails, simple home treatment and using the body correctly often can heal the back within a few weeks. Surgery is rarely needed to treat back pain.
There are no home remedies available for Back pain in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Back pain :
Back pain can range from a muscle ache to a shooting, burning or stabbing feeling. Also, the pain can radiate down a leg. Bending, twisting, lifting, standing or walking can make pain worse.
Causes for Back pain :
Back pain often develops without a cause that shows up in a test or an imaging study. Conditions commonly linked to back pain include:
Muscle or ligament strain. Repeated heavy lifting or a sudden awkward movement can strain back muscles and spinal ligaments. For people in poor physical condition, constant strain on the back can cause painful muscle spasms.
Bulging or ruptured disks. Disks act as cushions between the bones in the spine. The soft material inside a disk can bulge or rupture and press on a nerve. However, a bulging or ruptured disk might not cause back pain. Disk disease is often found on spine X-rays, CT scans or MRIs done for another reason.
Arthritis. Osteoarthritis can affect the lower back. In some cases, arthritis in the spine can lead to a narrowing of the space around the spinal cord, a condition called spinal stenosis.
Osteoporosis. The spine's vertebrae can develop painful breaks if the bones become porous and brittle.
Ankylosing spondylitis, also called axial spondyloarthritis. This inflammatory disease can cause some of the bones in the spine to fuse. This makes the spine less flexible.
Risk Factors for Back pain:
Anyone can develop back pain, even children and teens. These factors can increase the risk of developing back pain:
Age. Back pain is more common with age, starting around age 30 or 40.
Lack of exercise. Weak, unused muscles in the back and abdomen might lead to back pain.
Excess weight. Excess body weight puts extra stress on the back.
Diseases. Some types of arthritis and cancer can contribute to back pain.
Improper lifting. Using the back instead of the legs can lead to back pain.
Psychological conditions. People prone to depression and anxiety appear to have a greater risk of back pain. Stress can cause muscle tension, which can contribute to back pain.
Smoking. People who smoke have increased rates of back pain. This may occur because smoking causes coughing, which can lead to herniated disks. Smoking also can decrease blood flow to the spine and increase the risk of osteoporosis.
There are no Complications available for Back pain in the knowledge basePreventions for Back pain
Improving one's physical condition and learning and practicing how to use the body might help prevent back pain.
To keep the back healthy and strong:
Exercise. Regular low-impact aerobic activities can increase strength and endurance in the back and allow the muscles to work better. Walking, bicycling and swimming are good choices because they don't strain or jolt the back. Talk with your healthcare team about which activities to try.
Build muscle strength and flexibility. Abdominal and back muscle exercises, which strengthen the body's core, help condition these muscles so that they work together to support the back.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight strains back muscles.
Quit smoking. Smoking increases the risk of low back pain. The risk rises with the number of cigarettes smoked each day, so quitting can help reduce this risk.
Avoid movements that twist or strain the back. To use the body properly:
Stand smart. Don't slouch. Maintain a neutral pelvic position. When standing for long periods, place one foot on a low footstool to take some of the load off the lower back. Alternate feet. Good posture can reduce the stress on back muscles.
Sit smart. Choose a seat with good lower back support, armrests and a swivel base. Placing a pillow or rolled towel in the small of the back can maintain its typical curve. Keep knees and hips level. Change position frequently, at least every half hour.
Lift smart. Avoid heavy lifting, if possible. If you must lift something heavy, let your legs do the work. Keep your back straight, bend only at the knees, and don't twist. Hold the load close to your body. Find a lifting partner if the object is heavy or awkward.
Condition name:Bacterial vaginosis
Overview of Bacterial vaginosis:
Bacterial vaginosis (BV) can cause discomfort and pain of the vagina. It happens when natural bacteria levels are out of balance. Balanced levels of bacteria help keep the vagina healthy. But when too much of some bacteria grow, it can lead to BV.
Bacterial vaginosis can happen at any age. But it's most common during the reproductive years. The changes in hormones during this time make it easier for certain kinds of bacteria to grow. Also, bacterial vaginosis is more common among those who are sexually active. It's not clear why this is. But activities such as unprotected sex and douching raise your risk of having BV.
There are no home remedies available for Bacterial vaginosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bacterial vaginosis :
Symptoms of bacterial vaginosis include:
Thin, vaginal discharge that may be gray, white or green.
Foul-smelling, "fishy" vaginal odor.
Vaginal itching.
Burning during urination.
Many people with bacterial vaginosis have no symptoms.
Causes for Bacterial vaginosis :
Bacterial vaginosis happens when the vagina's natural bacteria levels are out of balance. The bacteria in the vagina are called the vaginal flora. Balanced vaginal flora help keep the vagina healthy. Usually "good" bacteria outnumber "bad" bacteria. The good bacteria are called lactobacilli; the bad bacteria are anaerobes. When there are too many anaerobes, they upset the balance of the flora, causing bacterial vaginosis.
Risk Factors for Bacterial vaginosis:
Risk factors for bacterial vaginosis include:
Having different sex partners or a new sex partner. The link between having sex and bacterial vaginosis isn't clear. But BV happens more often when someone has different or new sex partners. Also, BV is more common when the sex of both partners is female.
Douching. The vagina is self-cleaning. So rinsing your vagina with water or something else isn't needed. It may even cause problems. Douching upsets the vagina's healthy balance of bacteria. It can lead to an overgrowth of anaerobic bacteria, causing bacterial vaginosis.
Natural lack of lactobacilli bacteria. If your vagina doesn't produce enough lactobacilli, you're more likely to develop bacterial vaginosis.
Complications for Bacterial vaginosis:
Bacterial vaginosis doesn't cause complications very often. But sometimes, having BV may lead to:
Sexually transmitted infections. If you have BV, you have a higher risk of getting an STI. STIs include HIV, herpes simplex virus, chlamydia or gonorrhea. If you have HIV, bacterial vaginosis raises the risk of passing the virus to your partner.
Infection risk after gynecological surgery. Having BV may increase the risk of developing an infection after surgery such as hysterectomy or dilation and curettage (D&C).
Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Bacterial vaginosis can sometimes cause PID. This infection of the uterus and the fallopian tubes raises the risk of infertility.
Pregnancy issues. Past studies have shown a possible link between BV and problems with pregnancy. These include preterm birth and low birth weight. New studies show that these risks may be due to other reasons. These reasons include having a history of early delivery. But the studies agree that you should be tested if you notice symptoms of BV while pregnant. If positive, your doctor can choose the best treatment for you.
Preventions for Bacterial vaginosis
To help prevent bacterial vaginosis:
Don't use scented products. Wash your genitals with warm water only. Scented soaps and other scented products may inflame vaginal tissues. Use unscented tampons or pads only.
Don't douche. Douching won't clear up a vaginal infection. It may even make it worse. Your vagina doesn't require cleansing other than normal bathing. Douching disrupts the vaginal flora, raising your risk of infection.
Practice safe sex. To lower your risk of STIs, use latex condoms or dental dams. Clean any sex toys. Limit your number of sex partners or don't have sex.
Condition name:Bad breath
Overview of Bad breath:
Bad breath, also called halitosis, can be embarrassing and in some cases may even cause anxiety. It's no wonder that store shelves are overflowing with gum, mints, mouthwashes and other products to fight bad breath. But many of these products are only short-term measures. That's because they don't address the cause of the problem.
Certain foods, health conditions and habits are among the causes of bad breath. In many cases, you can make bad breath better by keeping your mouth and teeth clean. If you can't solve bad breath yourself, see your dentist or another healthcare professional to be sure a more serious condition isn't causing it.
Home Remedies for Bad breath:
To reduce or prevent bad breath:
Brush your teeth after you eat. Keep a toothbrush at work to use after eating. Brush using a fluoride-containing toothpaste at least twice a day, especially after meals. Toothpaste with antibacterial properties has been shown to reduce bad breath.
Floss at least once a day. Proper flossing removes food particles and plaque from between your teeth, helping to control bad breath.
Brush your tongue. Your tongue collects bacteria, so carefully brushing it may reduce odors. A tongue scraper may help people who have a coated tongue from a major overgrowth of bacteria, such as from smoking or dry mouth. Or use a toothbrush that has a built-in tongue cleaner.
Clean bridges, dentures, retainers and mouth guards. If you wear a bridge or a denture, clean it thoroughly at least once a day or as directed by your dentist. If you have a dental retainer or mouth guard, clean it each time before you put it in your mouth. Your dentist can recommend the best cleaning product.
Keep your mouth moist. Stay away from tobacco and drink plenty of water. Don't take in too much caffeine, spicy food or alcohol. All can dry out your mouth. Chew gum or suck on candy, preferably sugarless, to make more saliva. For constant dry mouth, your healthcare professional may prescribe an artificial saliva preparation or a medicine that you take by mouth that raises the flow of saliva.
Change your diet. Stay away from foods such as onions and garlic that can cause bad breath. Eating a lot of sugary foods also is linked with bad breath.
Replace your toothbrush. Change your toothbrush when it becomes frayed, about every 3 to 4 months or sooner as needed. Also, choose a soft-bristled toothbrush.
Schedule regular dental checkups. See your dentist regularly â€” generally twice a year. During these checkups, your dentist can look at your teeth or dentures and clean them.
Symptoms for Bad breath :
Bad breath odors vary, depending on the cause. Some people worry too much about their breath even though they have little or no mouth odor. Others have bad breath and don't know it. Because it's hard to know how your breath smells, ask a close friend or relative to confirm if you have bad breath.
Causes for Bad breath :
Most bad breath starts in your mouth. There are many possible causes, including:
Food. The breakdown of food particles in and around your teeth can lead to more bacteria and cause a foul odor. Eating certain foods, such as onions, garlic and spices, also can cause bad breath. After you digest these foods, they enter your bloodstream, are carried to your lungs and affect your breath.
Tobacco products. Smoking causes unpleasant mouth odor. Tobacco users also are more likely to have gum disease, which is another source of bad breath.
Not keeping your mouth and teeth clean. If you don't brush and floss daily, food particles remain in your mouth, causing bad breath. A colorless, sticky film of bacteria called plaque forms on your teeth. If not brushed away, plaque can irritate your gums. Eventually, it can form plaque-filled pockets between your teeth and gums. The early stage of gum disease is known as gingivitis. Late-stage gum disease with bone loss is called periodontitis. Your tongue also can trap bacteria that produce odors. Dentures also can collect odor-causing bacteria and food particles, as can fixed or removable oral appliances such as braces that aren't cleaned regularly or don't fit properly.
Dry mouth. Saliva helps cleanse your mouth, removing particles that cause bad odors. A condition called dry mouth or xerostomia (zeer-o-STOE-me-uh) can be a part of bad breath because you produce less saliva. Dry mouth naturally occurs during sleep, leading to "morning breath." It gets worse if you sleep with your mouth open. Constant dry mouth can be caused by a problem with the glands that produce saliva and by some diseases.
Medicines. Some medicines can lead to bad breath by causing dry mouth. The body breaks down other medicines and releases chemicals that can be carried on your breath.
Infections in your mouth. Surgical wounds after mouth surgery, such as tooth removal, as well as tooth decay, gum disease or mouth sores, can cause bad breath.
Other mouth, nose and throat conditions. Small stones that form in the tonsils, called tonsil stones or tonsilloliths, are covered with bacteria that can cause bad breath. Infections, or constant swelling in the nose, sinuses or throat, can lead to postnasal drip. This is when fluid from your nose runs down the back of your throat. This condition also can cause bad breath.
Other causes. Diseases such as some cancers can cause a distinctive breath odor. The same is true for disorders related to the body's process of breaking food down into energy. Constant heartburn, which is a symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease or GERD, can lead to bad breath. A foreign body, such as a piece of food lodged in a nostril, can cause bad breath in young children.
Risk Factors for Bad breath:
Your risk of bad breath is higher if you eat foods known to cause bad breath, such as garlic, onions and spices. Smoking, not keeping your mouth clean and some medicines also can play a part, as can dry mouth, infections of the mouth and some diseases. In addition, other conditions such as GERD or cancer can lead to bad breath.
There are no Complications available for Bad breath in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bad breath in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bags under eyes
Overview of Bags under eyes:
Bags under eyes are mild swelling or puffiness under the eyes. They're common as you age and the tissues around your eyes weaken, including some of the muscles supporting your eyelids. Fat that helps support the eyes can then move into the lower eyelids, causing them to appear puffy. Fluid may also accumulate below your eyes.
Bags under eyes are usually a cosmetic concern and rarely a sign of a serious condition. At-home remedies, such as cool compresses, can help improve their appearance. For persistent or bothersome under-eye puffiness, eyelid surgery may be an option.
Home Remedies for Bags under eyes:
The following tips can help you reduce or eliminate bags under your eyes:
Use a cool compress. Wet a clean washcloth with cool water. While sitting up, apply the damp washcloth to the skin under and around your eyes for a few minutes using light pressure.
Cut down on fluids before bedtime and limit salt in your diet. This will reduce the fluid retention that can cause bags under eyes.
Don't smoke. Smoking can aggravate the problem of bags under your eyes.
Get enough sleep. For most adults, 7 to 9 hours is a good amount of sleep.
Sleep with your head slightly raised. It may help to add an extra pillow or prop up the head of your mattress. Or elevate the entire head of the bed a few inches. This helps prevent fluid from accumulating around your eyes as you sleep.
Reduce allergy symptoms. Avoid allergens when possible. Try nonprescription allergy medications. Talk to your health care provider about prevention strategies if you develop under-eye reactions due to hair dyes, soaps, cosmetics or other allergens.
Use cosmetics. If you wish to mask your under-eye circles, try using makeup.
Symptoms for Bags under eyes :
Symptoms of bags under eyes can include:
Mild swelling
Saggy or loose skin
Dark circles
Causes for Bags under eyes :
Bags under eyes are caused when the tissue structures and muscles supporting your eyelids weaken. The skin may start to sag, and fat that's usually around the eye can move into the area below your eyes. Also, the space below your eyes can gather fluid, making the area look puffy or swollen. Several factors cause or worsen this effect, including:
Aging
Fluid retention, especially upon waking or after a salty meal
Lack of sleep
Allergies
Smoking
Genetics — under-eye bags can run in families
Medical conditions, such as dermatitis, dermatomyositis, renal disease and thyroid eye disease
There are no Risk Factors available for Bags under eyes in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Bags under eyes in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bags under eyes in the knowledge baseCondition name:Baker cyst
Overview of Baker cyst:
A Baker cyst is a fluid-filled growth behind the knee. It causes a bulge and a feeling of tightness. Also called a popliteal (pop-luh-TEE-ul) cyst, a Baker cyst sometime causes pain. The pain can get worse when with activity or when fully straightening or bending the knee.
A Baker cyst is usually the result of a problem with the knee joint, such as arthritis or a cartilage tear. Both conditions can cause the knee to produce too much fluid.
Although a Baker cyst may cause swelling and discomfort, treating the underlying problem that is causing it usually provides relief.
Home Remedies for Baker cyst:
If arthritis is causing the cyst, your health care provider may advise you to take some or all of the following steps:
Follow the R.I.C.E. principles. These letters stand for rest, ice, compression and elevation. Rest your leg. Ice your knee. Compress your knee with a wrap, sleeve or brace. And elevate your leg when possible, especially at night.
Try over-the-counter pain-relieving medications. Drugs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve, others), acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) and aspirin can help relieve pain. Follow the dosing instructions on the package. Don't take more than the recommend dosage.
Reduce your physical activity. Doing so will reduce irritation of your knee joint. Your health care provider can offer you guidance on how long you need to reduce your activity levels. Your provider may be able to suggest alternative forms of exercise you can do in the meantime.
Symptoms for Baker cyst :
In some cases, a Baker cyst causes no pain, and you may not notice it. If you do have symptoms, they might include:
Swelling behind the knee, and sometimes in the leg
Knee pain
Stiffness and inability to fully flex the knee
The symptoms may be worse after you've been active or if you've been standing for a long time.
Causes for Baker cyst :
A lubricating fluid called synovial (sih-NO-vee-ul) fluid helps the leg swing smoothly and reduces friction between the moving parts of the knee.
But sometimes underlying conditions can cause the knee to produce too much synovial fluid. When this happens, fluid can build up in the back of the knee, leading to a Baker cyst.
This can be caused by:
Inflammation of the knee joint, which can occur with various types of arthritis
A knee injury, such as a cartilage tear
There are no Risk Factors available for Baker cyst in the knowledge baseComplications for Baker cyst:
Rarely, a Baker cyst bursts and synovial fluid leaks into the calf region, causing:
Sharp pain in the knee
Swelling in the calf
Sometimes, redness of the calf or a feeling of water running down the calf
There are no preventive measures available for Baker cyst in the knowledge baseCondition name:Balance problems
Overview of Balance problems:
Balance problems can make you feel dizzy, as if the room is spinning, unsteady, or lightheaded. You might feel as if the room is spinning or you're going to fall down. These feelings can happen whether you're lying down, sitting or standing.
Many body systems — including your muscles, bones, joints, eyes, the balance organ in the inner ear, nerves, heart and blood vessels — must work normally for you to have normal balance. When these systems aren't functioning well, you can experience balance problems.
Many medical conditions can cause balance problems. However, most balance problems result from issues in your balance organ in the inner ear (vestibular system).
There are no home remedies available for Balance problems in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Balance problems :
Signs and symptoms of balance problems include:
Sense of motion or spinning (vertigo)
Feeling of faintness or lightheadedness (presyncope)
Loss of balance or unsteadiness
Falling or feeling like you might fall
Feeling a floating sensation or dizziness
Vision changes, such as blurriness
Confusion
Causes for Balance problems :
Balance problems can be caused by several different conditions. The cause of balance problems is usually related to the specific sign or symptom.
There are no Risk Factors available for Balance problems in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Balance problems in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Balance problems in the knowledge baseCondition name:Barrett's esophagus
Overview of Barrett's esophagus:
Barrett's esophagus is a condition in which the flat pink lining of the swallowing tube that connects the mouth to the stomach (esophagus) becomes damaged by acid reflux, which causes the lining to thicken and become red.
Between the esophagus and the stomach is a critically important valve, the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). Over time, the LES may begin to fail, leading to acid and chemical damage of the esophagus, a condition called gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is often accompanied by symptoms such as heartburn or regurgitation. In some people, this GERD may trigger a change in the cells lining the lower esophagus, causing Barrett's esophagus.
Barrett's esophagus is associated with an increased risk of developing esophageal cancer. Although the risk of developing esophageal cancer is small, it's important to have regular checkups with careful imaging and extensive biopsies of the esophagus to check for precancerous cells (dysplasia). If precancerous cells are discovered, they can be treated to prevent esophageal cancer.
Home Remedies for Barrett's esophagus:
Lifestyle changes can ease symptoms of GERD, which may underlie Barrett's esophagus. Consider:
Maintaining a healthy weight.
Eliminating foods and drinks that trigger your heartburn, such as chocolate, coffee, alcohol and mint.
Stopping smoking.
Raising the head of your bed. Place wooden blocks under your bed to elevate your head.
Symptoms for Barrett's esophagus :
The development of Barrett's esophagus is most often attributed to long-standing GERD, which may include these signs and symptoms:
Frequent heartburn and regurgitation of stomach contents
Difficulty swallowing food
Less commonly, chest pain
Curiously, approximately half of the people diagnosed with Barrett's esophagus report little if any symptoms of acid reflux. So, you should discuss your digestive health with your doctor regarding the possibility of Barrett's esophagus.
Causes for Barrett's esophagus :
The exact cause of Barrett's esophagus isn't known. While many people with Barrett's esophagus have long-standing GERD, many have no reflux symptoms, a condition often called "silent reflux."
Whether this acid reflux is accompanied by GERD symptoms or not, stomach acid and chemicals wash back into the esophagus, damaging esophagus tissue and triggering changes to the lining of the swallowing tube, causing Barrett's esophagus.
Risk Factors for Barrett's esophagus:
Factors that increase your risk of Barrett's esophagus include:
Family history. Your odds of having Barrett's esophagus increase if you have a family history of Barrett's esophagus or esophageal cancer.
Being male. Men are far more likely to develop Barrett's esophagus.
Being white. White people have a greater risk of the disease than do people of other races.
Age. Barrett's esophagus can occur at any age but is more common in adults over 50.
Chronic heartburn and acid reflux. Having GERD that doesn't get better when taking medications known as proton pump inhibitors or having GERD that requires regular medication can increase the risk of Barrett's esophagus.
Current or past smoking.
Being overweight. Body fat around your abdomen further increases your risk.
Complications for Barrett's esophagus:
People with Barrett's esophagus have an increased risk of esophageal cancer. The risk is small, even in people who have precancerous changes in their esophagus cells. Fortunately, most people with Barrett's esophagus will never develop esophageal cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Barrett's esophagus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bedbugs
Overview of Bedbugs:
Bedbugs are small, reddish-brown blood-sucking, wingless insects. Bedbug bites usually clear up without treatment in a week or two. Bedbugs aren't known to spread disease, but they can cause an allergic reaction or a severe skin reaction in some people.
Bedbugs are about the size of an apple seed. They hide in the cracks and crevices of beds, box springs, headboards, bed frames and other objects around a bed and come out at night to feed on their preferred host, humans. The risk of running into bedbugs is higher if you spend time in places where nighttime guests come and go often — such as hotels, hospitals or homeless shelters.
If you have bedbugs in your home, professional extermination is recommended.
There are no home remedies available for Bedbugs in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bedbugs :
Symptoms of bedbug bites are similar to symptoms of other insect bites and rashes. Bedbug bites are usually:
Inflamed spots, often with a darker spot in the middle
Itchy
Arranged in a rough line or in a cluster
Located on the face, neck, arms and hands
Some people have no reaction to bedbug bites, while others experience an allergic reaction that can include severe itching, blisters or hives.
Causes for Bedbugs :
Bedbug infestations may be linked to:
More frequent travel
Changes in pest control practices
Insecticide resistance
Risk Factors for Bedbugs:
You're at risk of bites from bedbugs if you're in places where people come and go often, such as apartment buildings, dorm rooms, homeless shelters, hotels, cruise ships, trains, buses and refugee camps.
There are no Complications available for Bedbugs in the knowledge basePreventions for Bedbugs
Cover up. Bedbugs don't tend to burrow under clothing. So you may be able to avoid bites by wearing pajamas that cover as much skin as possible.
Inspect secondhand items. Look over used bedding, mattresses and upholstered furniture before bringing them into your home.
Use hotel precautions. Check mattress seams for bedbug excrement and place your luggage on tables or dressers instead of on the floor.
Condition name:Bedsores (pressure ulcers)
Overview of Bedsores (pressure ulcers):
Bedsores are injuries to the skin and the tissue below the skin that are due to pressure on the skin for a long time. Bedsores most often arise on skin that covers bony areas of the body, such as the heels, ankles, hips and tailbone. Bedsores also are called pressure ulcers, pressure injuries and decubitus ulcers.
The people who are most at risk of bedsores have medical conditions that keep them from changing positions or moving. Or they spend most of their time in a bed or a chair.
Bedsores can arise over hours or days. Most sores heal with treatment, but some never heal completely. You can take steps to put a stop to bedsores and help them heal.
There are no home remedies available for Bedsores (pressure ulcers) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bedsores (pressure ulcers) :
Symptoms of bedsores are:
Changes in skin color or texture.
Swelling.
Pus-like draining.
An area of skin that feels cooler or warmer to the touch than other areas.
Sore areas.
Bedsores fall into one of several stages based on their depth, how serious they are and other features. The degree of skin and tissue damage ranges from inflamed, unbroken skin to a deep injury involving muscle and bone.
Causes for Bedsores (pressure ulcers) :
Pressure against the skin that limits blood flow to the skin causes bedsores. Limited movement can make skin prone to damage and cause bedsores.
The three main things that lead to bedsores are:
Pressure. Constant pressure on any part of the body can lessen the blood flow to tissues. Blood flow is essential to deliver oxygen and other nutrients to tissues. Without these key nutrients, skin and nearby tissues are damaged and might die over time. Limited movement can make skin prone to the damage that the pressure causes. For people with limited mobility, pressure tends to happen in areas that aren't well padded with muscle or fat and that lie over a bone. These areas include the spine, tailbone, shoulder blades, hips, heels and elbows.
Friction. Friction occurs when the skin rubs against clothing or bedding. It can make fragile skin more vulnerable to injury, especially if the skin also is moist.
Shear. Shear occurs when two surfaces move in the opposite direction. For example, when a bed is raised at the head, a person can slide down in bed. As the tailbone moves down, the skin over the bone might stay in place, pulling in the opposite direction.
Risk Factors for Bedsores (pressure ulcers):
Your risk of getting bedsores is higher if you have a hard time moving and can't change position easily while seated or in bed. Risk factors include:
Immobility. This might be due to poor health, spinal cord injury or another cause.
Incontinence. Skin becomes more vulnerable with extended exposure to urine and stool.
Lack of sensory perception. Spinal cord injuries, neurological disorders and other conditions can make you lose sensation. If you can't feel pain or discomfort, you won't be aware of warning signs and the need to change position.
Poor nutrition and hydration. People need enough fluids, calories, protein, vitamins and minerals every day to maintain healthy skin and stop the breakdown of tissues.
Medical conditions affecting blood flow. Health problems that can affect blood flow can raise the risk of tissue damage such as bedsores. Examples of these types of medical conditions are diabetes and vascular disease.
Age. If you're over 70, you're more likely to be affected by bedsores.
Complications for Bedsores (pressure ulcers):
Complications of pressure ulcers include:
Cellulitis. Cellulitis is an infection of the skin and connected soft tissues. It can cause warmth and swelling of the affected area. The skin may change color or look inflamed. People with nerve damage often don't feel pain in the area cellulitis affects.
Bone and joint infections. An infection from a bedsore can burrow into joints and bones. Joint infections, such as septic arthritis, can damage cartilage and tissue. Bone infections, also known as osteomyelitis, can reduce the function of joints and limbs.
Cancer. A Marjolin ulcer is a long-term, nonhealing wound that can become a type of squamous cell carcinoma.
Sepsis. Rarely, a skin ulcer leads to sepsis, which is a life-threatening complication of an infection.
Some complications can be life-threatening.
Preventions for Bedsores (pressure ulcers)
You can help stop bedsores with these steps:
Frequently change your position to avoid stress on the skin.
Take good care of your skin.
Eat and drink regularly.
Quit smoking.
Manage stress.
Exercise daily.
Condition name:Bed-wetting
Overview of Bed-wetting:
Bed-wetting — also called nighttime incontinence or nocturnal enuresis — means passing urine without intending to while asleep. This happens after the age at which staying dry at night can be reasonably expected.
Soggy sheets and pajamas — and an embarrassed child — are a familiar scene in many homes. But don't get upset if your child wets the bed. Bed-wetting isn't a sign of problems with toilet training. It's often just a typical part of a child's development.
Generally, bed-wetting before age 7 isn't a concern. At this age, your child may still be developing nighttime bladder control.
If your child continues to wet the bed, treat the problem with patience and understanding. Lifestyle changes, bladder training, moisture alarms and sometimes medicine may help lessen bed-wetting.
Home Remedies for Bed-wetting:
Here are changes you can make at home that may help with bed-wetting:
Limit fluids in the evening. It's important to get enough fluids, so there's no need to limit how much your child drinks in a day. But encourage drinking liquids in the morning and early afternoon. This may lessen thirst in the evening. But don't limit evening fluids if your child has sports practice or games in the evenings.
Avoid drinks and foods with caffeine. Caffeine is not a good idea for children at any time of day. Because caffeine may stimulate the bladder, it should especially be avoided in the evening.
Urge double voiding before bed. Double voiding is passing urine at the beginning of the bedtime routine and then again just before falling asleep. Remind your child that it's OK to use the toilet during the night if needed. Use small night lights, so your child can easily find the way between the bedroom and bathroom.
Urge regular toilet use throughout the day. During the day and evening, suggest that your child pass urine every 2 to 3 hours or so, or at least often enough to avoid a feeling of needing to pass urine right away.
Prevent rashes. To prevent a rash caused by wet underwear, help your child rinse their bottom and genital area every morning. It also may help to cover the affected area with a protective moisture barrier ointment or cream at bedtime. Ask your health care professional for product suggestions.
Symptoms for Bed-wetting :
Most kids are fully toilet trained by age 5, but there's really no target date for having complete bladder control. Between the ages of 5 and 7, bed-wetting remains a problem for some children. After 7 years of age, a small number of children still wet the bed.
Causes for Bed-wetting :
It's not known for sure what causes bed-wetting. Several issues may play a role, such as:
A small bladder. Your child's bladder may not be developed enough to hold all the urine made during the night.
No awareness of a full bladder. If the nerves that control the bladder are slow to mature, a full bladder may not wake your child. This may be especially true if your child is a deep sleeper.
A hormone imbalance. During childhood, some kids do not produce enough anti-diuretic hormone, also called ADH. ADH slows down how much urine is made during the night.
Urinary tract infection. Also called a UTI, this infection can make it hard for your child to control the urge to pass urine. Symptoms may include bed-wetting, daytime accidents, passing urine often, red or pink urine, and pain when passing urine.
Sleep apnea. Sometimes bed-wetting is a sign of obstructive sleep apnea. Sleep apnea is when a child's breathing is interrupted during sleep. This is often due to swollen and irritated or enlarged tonsils or adenoids. Other symptoms may include snoring and being sleepy during the day.
Diabetes. For a child who's usually dry at night, bed-wetting may be the first sign of diabetes. Other symptoms may include passing large amounts of urine at once, increased thirst, extreme tiredness and weight loss in spite of a good appetite.
Ongoing constipation. A child who is constipated does not have bowel movements often enough, and the stools may be hard and dry. When constipation is long term, the muscles involved in passing urine and stools may not work well. This can be linked to bed-wetting.
A problem in the urinary tract or nervous system. Rarely, bed-wetting is related to a difference in the structure of the urinary tract or nervous system.
Risk Factors for Bed-wetting:
Bed-wetting can affect anyone, but it's twice as common in boys as in girls.
Several factors have been linked with an increased risk of bed-wetting, including:
Stress and anxiety. Stressful events may trigger bed-wetting. Examples include having a new baby in the family, starting a new school or sleeping away from home.
Family history. If one or both of a child's parents wet the bed as children, their child has an increased chance of wetting the bed, too.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Bed-wetting is more common in children who have ADHD.
Complications for Bed-wetting:
Although frustrating, bed-wetting without a physical cause does not result in any health risks. But bed-wetting can create some issues for your child, including:
Guilt and embarrassment, which can lead to low self-esteem.
Loss of opportunities for social activities, such as sleepovers and camp.
Rashes on your child's bottom and genital area — especially if your child sleeps in wet underwear.
There are no preventive measures available for Bed-wetting in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bee sting
Overview of Bee sting:
A bee sting is a common outdoor nuisance. You can take several steps to avoid stings from bees, hornets and wasps. If you're stung, basic first aid can help ease the pain of a mild or moderate reaction. You may need emergency medical help for a severe reaction.
Home Remedies for Bee sting:
For a minor or moderate bee sting, follow these first-aid steps:
Move to a safe area to avoid more stings.
If you see a stinger sticking out of the wound â€” it looks like a black dot â€” remove it as soon as possible. Try scraping it off with a fingernail or the blunt edge of a knife. A stinger may not be present, as only bees leave a stinger. Other stinging insects, such as wasps, do not.
Wash the sting area with soap and water.
Remove any rings in the sting area right away, before swelling gets worse.
Apply to the area a cloth dampened with cold water or filled with ice. Keep it on the sting for 10 to 20 minutes. Repeat as needed.
If the sting is on an arm or leg, raise it. Swelling may increase over the next two days but usually goes away with time and elevation.
Apply hydrocortisone cream or calamine lotion to ease itching and swelling. Do this up to four times a day until your symptoms go away.
If needed, take a pain reliever. Pain medicine you can buy without a prescription can help ease pain. Examples are ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). If the sting area itches, take an anti-itch medicine by mouth. This type of medicine is also called an antihistamine. Examples are diphenhydramine (Benadryl), chlorpheniramine, loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others), cetirizine (Zyrtec Allergy) and fexofenadine (Allegra Allergy). Some of these products can make you drowsy.
What to avoid
Don't scratch the sting area. Scratching can lead to infection.
Don't rub the sting with mud, as mud contains many germs.
Don't try to remove a stinger below the skin surface. It will come out over time as the skin sheds.
Don't apply heat.
Symptoms for Bee sting :
Bee sting symptoms can range from pain and swelling to a life-threatening allergic reaction. Having one type of reaction doesn't mean you'll always have the same reaction every time you're stung or that the next reaction will be more severe.
Mild reaction. Most of the time, bee sting symptoms are minor and include instant, sharp burning pain, a welt and swelling. In most people, the swelling and pain go away within a few hours.
Moderate reaction. Some people who get stung by a bee or other insect have a stronger reaction, with burning pain, a welt, itching, flushing and swelling that gets worse over the next day or two. The symptoms can last up to seven days.
Severe reaction. A severe reaction to a bee sting is potentially life-threatening and requires emergency treatment. This type of reaction is called anaphylaxis. A small percentage of people who are stung by a bee or other insect develop anaphylaxis. It usually happens 15 minutes to an hour after the sting. Symptoms include rash, itching, trouble breathing, swollen tongue, trouble swallowing and tightness in the chest.
Multiple bee stings. If you get stung more than a dozen times, you can have a bad reaction that makes you feel quite sick. Symptoms include those of a moderate reaction as well as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever and lightheadedness.
Causes for Bee sting :
A bee sting is an injury caused by bee venom. To sting, a bee jabs a barbed stinger into the skin. The stinger releases venom. The venom has proteins in it that cause pain and swelling around the sting area.
Generally, insects such as bees and wasps aren't aggressive and only sting in self-defense. In most cases, this results in one or perhaps a few stings. Some types of bees tend to swarm, stinging in a group. An example of this type of bee is Africanized bees.
Risk Factors for Bee sting:
Risk factors for a bee sting include:
Living in an area where bees are active.
Being near beehives.
Spending a lot of time outdoors.
There are no Complications available for Bee sting in the knowledge basePreventions for Bee sting
The following tips may help reduce your risk of a bee sting:
Take care when drinking sweet beverages outside. Use wide, open cups so you can see if a bee is in them. Inspect cans and straws before drinking from them.
Tightly cover food containers and trash cans, as odors from them can attract insects.
Clear away garbage, fallen fruit, and dog or other animal feces, as flies can attract wasps.
Wear closed-toe shoes when walking outside. Don't walk through flowers.
Don't use perfumes and scented hair and body products, as they can attract insects.
Don't wear bright colors or floral prints, as they can attract bees.
Be careful when mowing the lawn or trimming vegetation. Such activities might disturb insects in a beehive or wasp nest.
Avoid being near bees, yellow jackets and hornets. For example, remove hives and nests near your home if you can do this safely.
Know what to do when bees or other stinging insects are nearby:
If a few bees are flying around you, stay calm and slowly walk away from the area. Swatting at an insect may cause it to sting.
If a bee or wasp stings you, or many insects start to fly around, cover your mouth and nose and quickly leave the area. When a bee stings, it releases a chemical that attracts other bees. If you can, get into a building or closed vehicle.
People who have a severe reaction to a bee sting have on average a 50% chance of anaphylaxis the next time they're stung. Talk to a healthcare professional about prevention measures such as allergy shots to avoid a similar reaction if you get stung again.
Condition name:Behcet's disease
Overview of Behcet's disease:
Behcet's (beh-CHETS) disease, also called Behcet's syndrome, is a rare disorder that causes blood vessel inflammation throughout your body.
The disease can lead to numerous signs and symptoms that can seem unrelated at first. They can include mouth sores, eye inflammation, skin rashes and lesions, and genital sores.
Treatment involves medications to reduce the signs and symptoms of Behcet's disease and to prevent serious complications, such as blindness.
There are no home remedies available for Behcet's disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Behcet's disease :
Behcet's disease symptoms vary from person to person, can come and go or become less severe over time. Signs and symptoms depend on which parts of your body are affected.
Areas commonly affected by Behcet's disease include:
Mouth. Painful mouth sores that look similar to canker sores are the most common sign of Behcet's disease. They begin as raised, round lesions in the mouth that quickly turn into painful ulcers. The sores usually heal in one to three weeks, though they do recur.
Skin. Some people develop acnelike sores on their bodies. Others develop red, raised and tender nodules on their skin, especially on the lower legs.
Genitals. Red, open sores can occur on the scrotum or the vulva. The sores are usually painful and can leave scars.
Eyes. Inflammation in the eye (uveitis) causes redness, pain and blurred vision, typically in both eyes. In people with Behcet's disease, the condition can come and go.
Joints. Joint swelling and pain often affect the knees in people with Behcet's disease. The ankles, elbows or wrists also might be involved. Signs and symptoms can last one to three weeks and go away on their own.
Blood vessels. Inflammation in veins and arteries can cause redness, pain, and swelling in the arms or legs when a blood clot results. Inflammation in the large arteries can lead to complications, such as aneurysms and narrowing or blockage of the vessel.
Digestive system. A variety of signs and symptoms can affect the digestive system, including abdominal pain, diarrhea and bleeding.
Brain. Inflammation in the brain and nervous system can cause headache, fever, disorientation, poor balance or stroke.
Causes for Behcet's disease :
Behcet's disease might be an autoimmune disorder, which means the body's immune system mistakenly attacks some of its own healthy cells. It's likely that genetic and environmental factors play a role.
The signs and symptoms of Behcet's disease are considered to be due to inflammation of the blood vessels (vasculitis). The condition can involve arteries and veins of all sizes, damaging them throughout the body.
Several genes have been found to be associated with the disease. Some researchers believe a virus or bacterium can trigger Behcet's disease in people who have certain genes that make them susceptible to Behcet's.
Risk Factors for Behcet's disease:
Factors that might increase your risk of Behcet's include:
Age. Behcet's disease commonly affects men and women in their 20s and 30s, though children and older adults also can develop the condition.
Where you live. People from countries in the Middle East and East Asia, including Turkey, Iran, Japan and China, are more likely to develop Behcet's.
Sex. While Behcet's disease occurs in both men and women, the disease is usually more severe in men.
Genes. Having certain genes is associated with a higher risk of developing Behcet's.
Complications for Behcet's disease:
Complications of Behcet's disease depend on your signs and symptoms. For instance, untreated uveitis can lead to decreased vision or blindness. People with eye signs and symptoms of Behcet's disease need to visit an eye specialist (ophthalmologist) regularly because treatment can help prevent this complication.
There are no preventive measures available for Behcet's disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bell's palsy
Overview of Bell's palsy:
Bell's palsy is a condition that causes sudden weakness in the muscles on one side of the face. Often the weakness is short-term and improves over weeks. The weakness makes half of the face appear to droop. Smiles are one-sided, and the eye on the affected side is hard to close.
Bell's palsy also is known as acute peripheral facial palsy of unknown cause. It can occur at any age. The exact cause is not known. Experts think it's caused by swelling and irritation of the nerve that controls the muscles on one side of the face. Bell's palsy could be caused by a reaction that occurs after a viral infection.
Symptoms usually start to improve within a few weeks, with complete recovery in about six months. A small number of people continue to have some Bell's palsy symptoms for life. Rarely, Bell's palsy occurs more than once.
Home Remedies for Bell's palsy:
Home treatment may include:
Taking pain relievers. Aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) are available without a prescription and may help ease your pain.
Doing physical therapy exercises. Massaging and exercising your face according to your physical therapist's advice may help relax your facial muscles.
Symptoms for Bell's palsy :
Symptoms of Bell's palsy come on suddenly and may include:
Mild weakness to total paralysis on one side of the face — occurring within hours to days.
Facial droop and trouble making facial expressions, such as closing an eye or smiling.
Drooling.
Pain around the jaw or pain in or behind the ear on the affected side.
Increased sensitivity to sound on the affected side.
Headache.
Loss of taste.
Changes in the amount of tears and saliva produced.
Rarely, Bell's palsy can affect the nerves on both sides of the face.
Causes for Bell's palsy :
Although the exact reason Bell's palsy occurs isn't clear, it's often related to having a viral infection. Viruses that have been linked to Bell's palsy include viruses that cause:
Cold sores and genital herpes, also known as herpes simplex.
Chickenpox and shingles, also known as herpes zoster.
Infectious mononucleosis, caused by the Epstein-Barr virus.
Cytomegalovirus infections.
Respiratory illnesses, caused by adenoviruses.
German measles, also known as rubella.
Mumps, caused by the mumps virus.
Flu, also known as influenza B.
Hand-foot-and-mouth disease, caused by a coxsackievirus.
The nerve that controls facial muscles passes through a narrow corridor of bone on its way to the face. In Bell's palsy, that nerve becomes inflamed and swollen — usually related to a viral infection. Besides affecting facial muscles, the nerve affects tears, saliva, taste and a small bone in the middle of the ear.
Risk Factors for Bell's palsy:
Bell's palsy occurs more often in people who:
Are pregnant, especially during the third trimester, or who are in the first week after giving birth.
Have an upper respiratory infection, such as the flu or a cold.
Have diabetes.
Have high blood pressure.
Have obesity.
It's rare for Bell's palsy to come back. But when it does, there's often a family history of repeated attacks. This suggests that Bell's palsy might have something to do with genes.
Complications for Bell's palsy:
Mild symptoms of Bell's palsy typically disappear within a month. Recovery from more-complete facial paralysis can vary. Complications may include:
Irreversible damage to your facial nerve.
Irregular regrowth of nerve fibers. This may result in involuntary contraction of certain muscles when you're trying to move other muscles, known as synkinesis. For example, when you smile, the eye on the affected side may close.
Partial or complete blindness of the eye that won't close. This is caused by excessive dryness and scratching of the clear protective covering of the eye, known as the cornea.
There are no preventive measures available for Bell's palsy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Benign adrenal tumors
Overview of Benign adrenal tumors:
Benign adrenal tumors are masses that aren't cancer. They form in the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system. These glands make hormones that send messages to nearly every organ and tissue in the body.
There are two adrenal glands, one above each kidney. Each gland has two types of tissue: the cortex and the medulla. Benign adrenal tumors that grow in the cortex are called adrenal adenomas. Those that grow in the medulla are called pheochromocytomas (fee-o-kroe-moe-sy-TOE-muhs).
Most benign adrenal tumors cause no symptoms and don't need treatment. But sometimes these tumors make high levels of some hormones that can cause problems. Hormones from the cortex control metabolism, blood pressure and certain body features, such as hair growth. Hormones from the medulla control the body's response to stress.
There are no home remedies available for Benign adrenal tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Benign adrenal tumors :
Symptoms depend on whether the tumor makes hormones, what hormone it makes and how much it makes. But many benign adrenal gland tumors don't cause symptoms because they don't make hormones.
The most common type of benign adrenal tumor, called adenoma, comes from the adrenal cortex. This type of tumor might cause symptoms such as:
Weight gain.
Easy bruising.
High blood pressure, also called hypertension.
Diabetes.
Depressed mood.
Tiredness.
Muscle weakness or cramping.
A type of benign adrenal tumor from the medulla is called pheochromocytoma. It might cause the following symptoms:
High blood pressure, also called hypertension.
Fast heartbeat.
Sweating.
Tremors.
Headache.
Causes for Benign adrenal tumors :
The cause of benign adrenal tumors often is not known.
Risk Factors for Benign adrenal tumors:
The following might raise the risk of developing a benign adrenal tumor:
A family history of benign adrenal tumors.
Certain syndromes passed through families, called genetic syndromes, that make benign adrenal tumors more likely.
A history of having an adrenal tumor surgically removed.
There are no Complications available for Benign adrenal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Benign adrenal tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV)
Overview of Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV):
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is one of the most common causes of vertigo — the sudden sensation that you're spinning or that the inside of your head is spinning.
BPPV causes brief episodes of mild to intense dizziness. It is usually triggered by specific changes in your head's position. This might occur when you tip your head up or down, when you lie down, or when you turn over or sit up in bed.
Although BPPV can be bothersome, it's rarely serious except when it increases the chance of falls. You can receive effective treatment for BPPV during a doctor's office visit.
Home Remedies for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV):
If you experience dizziness associated with BPPV, consider these tips:
Be aware of the possibility of losing your balance, which can lead to falling and serious injury.
Avoid movements, such as looking up, that bring on the symptoms.
Sit down immediately when you feel dizzy.
Use good lighting if you get up at night.
Walk with a cane for stability if you're at risk of falling.
Work closely with your doctor to manage your symptoms effectively.
BPPV may recur even after successful therapy. Although there's no cure, the condition can be managed with physical therapy and home treatments.
Symptoms for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) :
The signs and symptoms of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) may include:
Dizziness
A sense that you or your surroundings are spinning or moving (vertigo)
A loss of balance or unsteadiness
Nausea
Vomiting
The signs and symptoms of BPPV can come and go and commonly last less than one minute. Episodes of BPPV can disappear for some time and then recur.
Activities that bring about the signs and symptoms of BPPV can vary from person to person, but are almost always brought on by a change in head position. Some people also feel out of balance when standing or walking.
Abnormal rhythmic eye movements usually accompany the symptoms of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo.
Causes for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) :
Often, there's no known cause for BPPV. This is called idiopathic BPPV.
When there is a known cause, BPPV is often associated with a minor to severe blow to your head. Less common causes of BPPV include disorders that damage your inner ear or, rarely, damage that occurs during ear surgery or long periods positioned on your back, such as in a dentist chair. BPPV also has been associated with migraines.
Risk Factors for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV):
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo occurs most often in people age 50 and older, but can occur at any age. BPPV is also more common in women than in men. A head injury or any other disorder of the balance organs of your ear may make you more susceptible to BPPV.
Complications for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV):
Although BPPV is uncomfortable, it rarely causes complications. The dizziness of BPPV can make you unsteady, which may put you at greater risk of falling.
There are no preventive measures available for Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Benign peripheral nerve tumor
Overview of Benign peripheral nerve tumor:
Your peripheral nerves link your brain and spinal cord to other parts of your body. These nerves control your muscles so that you can walk, blink, swallow, pick things up and do other activities.
Several different types of tumors may form on the peripheral nerves. The cause of these tumors is usually unknown. Some have a genetic cause.
Most of these types of tumors are not cancerous (benign). But they can lead to nerve damage and loss of muscle control. That's why it's important to see your health care provider when you have any unusual lump, pain, tingling or numbness, or muscle weakness.
There are no home remedies available for Benign peripheral nerve tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Benign peripheral nerve tumor :
A benign peripheral nerve tumor can cause symptoms if it presses on the nerve in which it is growing or on nearby nerves, blood vessels or tissues.
As the tumor grows, it may be more likely to cause symptoms, but even small tumors can sometimes cause symptoms. Symptoms depend on the location of the tumor and which tissues it affects. Symptoms may include:
Swelling or a lump under your skin
Pain, tingling or numbness
Weakness or loss of function in the affected area
Dizziness or loss of balance
Causes for Benign peripheral nerve tumor :
The cause of benign peripheral nerve tumors usually isn't known. Some are passed down in families.
The most common type of benign peripheral nerve tumor is a schwannoma. A schwannoma typically starts in a single bundle inside the main nerve, shifting the rest of the nerve.
Another common type is a neurofibroma. A neurofibroma also often forms inside the nerve. Sometimes it grows from several nerve bundles.
Perineuriomas are rare and can grow from inside or outside the nerve. Tumors outside a nerve can cause problems when they press on the nerve. Other benign tumors that form outside nerves are soft lumps of slow-growing fat cells called lipomas and ganglion cysts.
There are no Risk Factors available for Benign peripheral nerve tumor in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Benign peripheral nerve tumor in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Benign peripheral nerve tumor in the knowledge baseCondition name:Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)
Overview of Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH):
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) is a health issue that becomes more common with age. It's also called an enlarged prostate. The prostate is a small gland that helps make semen. It's found just below the bladder. And it often gets bigger as you get older.
An enlarged prostate can cause symptoms that may bother you, such as blocking the flow of urine out of the bladder. It also can cause bladder, urinary tract or kidney problems.
Many treatments can help BPH. These include medicines, surgery and other procedures. Your health care provider can help you choose. The right option depends on things such as:
Your symptoms.
The size of your prostate.
Other health problems you might have.
Home Remedies for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH):
You can do things at home to help control the symptoms of an enlarged prostate.
Try to make healthy diet and exercise changes:
Drink less at night. Don't drink anything for an hour or two before bedtime. This helps prevent trips to the bathroom overnight.
Limit caffeine and alcohol. They can cause the body to make more urine, irritate the bladder and make symptoms worse.
Watch what you eat. Foods with lots of seasoning can irritate the bladder.
Become more active. Exercise can help reduce urinary problems caused by an enlarged prostate.
Stay at a healthy weight. Obesity is linked with an enlarged prostate.
Also try these bathroom habits:
Go when you first feel the urge. Waiting too long might stretch the bladder muscle too much and cause damage.
Plan bathroom breaks. Try to pee at regular times, such as every couple of hours, during the day. This can be useful if you need to pee often and urgently.
Pee and then pee again a few moments later. This practice is known as double voiding.
Other things that might help include:
Limiting decongestants or antihistamines. These medicines tighten the band of muscles around the urethra that control urine flow. This makes it harder to pee.
Staying warm. Colder temperatures can cause urine retention and increase the urgency to urinate.
More Information
Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) care at Mayo Clinic
Enlarged prostate: Does diet play a role?
Symptoms for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) :
Common symptoms of BPH include:
Frequent or urgent need to pee, also called urination.
Peeing more often at night.
Trouble starting to pee.
Weak urine stream, or a stream that stops and starts.
Dribbling at the end of urination.
Not being able to fully empty the bladder.
Less common symptoms include:
Urinary tract infection.
Not being able to pee.
Blood in the urine.
The symptoms of BPH tend to slowly get worse. But sometimes they stay the same or even improve over time.
The size of the prostate doesn't always determine how serious the symptoms are. Some people with slightly enlarged prostates can have major symptoms. Others who have very enlarged prostates can have minor problems. And some people with enlarged prostates don't have any symptoms at all.
Causes for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) :
The prostate gland is located beneath the bladder. The tube that moves urine from the bladder out of the penis is called the urethra. This tube passes through the center of the prostate. When the prostate gets bigger, it starts to block urine flow.
The prostate is a gland that typically keeps growing throughout life. This growth often enlarges the prostate enough to cause symptoms or to block urine flow.
It isn't clear what causes the prostate to get bigger. It might be due to changes in the balance of sex hormones as you grow older.
Risk Factors for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH):
Risk factors for an enlarged prostate include:
Aging. An enlarged prostate gland rarely causes symptoms before age 40. After that, the chance of having an enlarged prostate and related symptoms starts to rise.
Family history. Having a blood relative with prostate problems makes you more likely to have problems with your prostate.
Diabetes and heart disease. Studies show that diabetes might raise the risk of BPH. So might heart disease.
Lifestyle. Obesity raises the risk of BPH. Exercise can help lower the risk.
Complications for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH):
Complications of an enlarged prostate can include:
Not being able to pee. This also is called urinary retention. You might need to have a tube called a catheter placed into your bladder to drain the urine. Some people with an enlarged prostate need surgery to get relief.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs). Not being able to fully empty the bladder can raise the risk of infection in the urinary tract. If you often get UTIs, you might need surgery to remove part of the prostate.
Bladder stones. These are most often caused by being unable to fully empty the bladder. Bladder stones can cause illness, bladder irritation, blood in the urine and blocked urine flow.
Bladder damage. A bladder that doesn't empty fully can stretch and weaken over time. As a result, the muscular wall of the bladder no longer squeezes properly to force urine out. And this makes it harder to fully empty the bladder.
Kidney damage. Pressure in the bladder from not being able to pee can damage the kidneys or let bladder infections reach the kidneys.
Treatment for BPH lowers the risk of these complications. But urinary retention and kidney damage can be serious health threats.
Having an enlarged prostate is not thought to raise the risk of getting prostate cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bicuspid aortic valve
Overview of Bicuspid aortic valve:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Bicuspid aortic valve in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bicuspid aortic valve :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Bicuspid aortic valve in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Bicuspid aortic valve in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Bicuspid aortic valve in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bicuspid aortic valve in the knowledge baseCondition name:Binge-eating disorder
Overview of Binge-eating disorder:
Binge-eating disorder is a serious condition. It always involves feeling like you're not able to stop eating. It also often involves eating much larger than usual amounts of food.
Almost everyone overeats on occasion, such as having seconds or thirds of a holiday meal. But regularly feeling that eating is out of control and eating an unusually large amount of food may be symptoms of binge-eating disorder.
People who have binge-eating disorder often feel embarrassed or ashamed about eating binges. People with the disorder often go through periods of trying to restrict or severely cut back on their eating as a result. But this instead may increase urges to eat and lead to a cycle of ongoing binge eating. Treatment for binge-eating disorder can help people feel more in control and balanced with their eating.
Home Remedies for Binge-eating disorder:
Along with getting professional help, you can take these self-care steps as part of your treatment plan:
Stay with your treatment. Don't skip therapy sessions. If you have a meal plan, do your best to stay with it. Don't let setbacks keep you from continuing treatment.
Stay away from dieting. Trying to diet can trigger more binge eating, leading to a vicious cycle that's hard to break.
Eat regularly. For example, eat every 2 to 3 hours to try to break the restrict-then-binge cycle.
Plan ahead for triggering situations. Being around certain foods can trigger eating binges for some people. Plan what to do when you're around foods that are tempting.
Get the right nutrients. Just because you may be eating a lot during binges doesn't mean you're eating the kinds of food that have all the nutrients you need. Ask your healthcare professional if you need to adjust your diet to get essential vitamins and minerals.
Stay connected. Don't isolate yourself from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Surround yourself with people who have your best interests at heart.
Get active. Ask your healthcare professional what kind of physical activity is best for you.
Symptoms for Binge-eating disorder :
If you have binge-eating disorder, you may be overweight or obese, or you may be at a healthy weight. Most people with binge-eating disorder feel upset about their body size or shape no matter what the number on the scale is.
Symptoms of binge-eating disorder vary but can include:
Feeling that you don't have control over your eating behavior, for example, you can't stop once you start.
Often eating much larger than usual amounts of food in a specific amount of time, such as over a two-hour period.
Eating even when you're full or not hungry.
Eating very fast during eating binges.
Eating until you're uncomfortably full.
Often eating alone or in secret.
Feeling depressed, disgusted, ashamed, guilty or upset about your eating.
A person with bulimia nervosa, another eating disorder, may binge and then vomit, use laxatives or exercise excessively to get rid of extra calories. This is not the case with binge-eating disorder. If you have binge-eating disorder, you may try to diet or eat less food at mealtimes to compensate. But restricting your diet may simply lead to more binge eating.
How much eating binges affect your mood and ability to function in daily life gives an idea of how serious the condition is for you. Binge-eating disorder can vary over time. The condition may be short-lived, may go away and come back, or may continue for years if left untreated.
Causes for Binge-eating disorder :
The causes of binge-eating disorder are not known. But certain genes, how your body works, long-term dieting and the presence of other mental health conditions increase your risk.
Risk Factors for Binge-eating disorder:
Binge-eating disorder is more common in women than in men. People of any age can have binge-eating disorder, but it often begins in the late teens or early 20s.
Factors that can raise your risk of having binge-eating disorder include:
Family history. You're much more likely to have an eating disorder if your parents or siblings have — or had — an eating disorder. This may point to genes passed down in your family that increase the risk of having an eating disorder.
Dieting. Many people with binge-eating disorder have a history of dieting. Dieting or limiting calories throughout the day may trigger an urge to binge eat.
Mental health conditions. Many people who have binge-eating disorder feel negatively about themselves and their skills and accomplishments. Triggers for bingeing can include stress, poor body self-image and certain foods. Certain situations also can be triggers, for example, being at a party, having downtime or driving in your car.
Complications for Binge-eating disorder:
Mental health conditions and physical problems can happen from binge eating. Complications from binge-eating disorder may include:
Not feeling comfortable or able to enjoy your life.
Problems functioning at work, in your personal life or in social situations.
Isolating or feeling isolated from others socially.
Weight gain.
Medical conditions related to weight gain. These may include joint problems, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), poor nutrition and some sleep-related breathing disorders.
Mental health conditions that are often linked with binge-eating disorder include:
Depression.
Anxiety.
Substance use disorders.
Suicidal thoughts and behavior.
Preventions for Binge-eating disorder
If you have a child with binge-eating behaviors:
Model body acceptance, regardless of body shape or size. Make it clear that dieting or restricting food is not healthy unless there's a diagnosed food allergy.
Talk with your child's healthcare professional about any concerns. The healthcare professional may be in a good position to identify early symptoms of an eating disorder and help get expert treatment right away. The professional also can recommend helpful resources you can use to support your child.
Condition name:Bipolar disorder
Overview of Bipolar disorder:
Bipolar disorder, formerly called manic depression, is a mental health condition that causes extreme mood swings. These include emotional highs, also known as mania or hypomania, and lows, also known as depression. Hypomania is less extreme than mania.
When you become depressed, you may feel sad or hopeless and lose interest or pleasure in most activities. When your mood shifts to mania or hypomania, you may feel very excited and happy (euphoric), full of energy or unusually irritable. These mood swings can affect sleep, energy, activity, judgment, behavior and the ability to think clearly.
Episodes of mood swings from depression to mania may occur rarely or multiple times a year. Each bout usually lasts several days. Between episodes, some people have long periods of emotional stability. Others may frequently have mood swings from depression to mania or both depression and mania at the same time.
Although bipolar disorder is a lifelong condition, you can manage your mood swings and other symptoms by following a treatment plan. In most cases, healthcare professionals use medicines and talk therapy, also known as psychotherapy, to treat bipolar disorder.
Home Remedies for Bipolar disorder:
You'll probably need to make lifestyle changes to stop cycles of behavior that make your bipolar disorder worse. Here are some steps to take:
Quit drinking or using street drugs. One of the biggest concerns with bipolar disorder is the negative results of risk-taking behavior and drug or alcohol misuse. Get help if you have trouble quitting on your own.
Form healthy relationships. Surround yourself with people who are a positive influence. Friends and family members can provide support and help you watch for warning signs of mood shifts.
Create a healthy routine. Having a regular routine for sleeping, eating and physical activity can help balance your moods. Eat a healthy diet. If you take lithium, talk with your healthcare professional about how much fluid and salt you should take in. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare professional or mental health professional about what you can do.
Check first before taking other medicines. Call your healthcare professional or mental health professional before you take medicines that another health professional prescribes or any supplements or medicines available without a prescription. For example, when taking lithium (Lithobid), you should avoid regularly using ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others). Sometimes other medicines cause depression or mania. Or these medicines may not work well with the medicines you take for bipolar disorder.
Think about keeping a mood chart. Keeping a record of your daily moods, treatments, sleep, activities and feelings may help identify triggers, effective treatment options and when treatment needs to be changed.
Symptoms for Bipolar disorder :
There are several types of bipolar and related disorders:
Bipolar I disorder. You've had at least one manic episode that may come before or after hypomanic or major depressive episodes. In some cases, mania may cause a break from reality. This is called psychosis.
Bipolar II disorder. You've had at least one major depressive episode and at least one hypomanic episode. But you've never had a manic episode.
Cyclothymia. You've had at least two years — or one year in children and teenagers — of many periods of hypomania symptoms and periods of depressive symptoms. These symptoms are less severe than major depression.
Other types. These types include bipolar and related disorders caused by certain drugs or alcohol, or due to a medical condition, such as Cushing's disease, multiple sclerosis or stroke.
These types may include mania, or hypomania, which is less extreme than mania, and depression. Symptoms can cause changes in mood and behavior that can't be predicted. This can lead to a lot of distress and cause you to have a hard time in life.
Bipolar II disorder is not a milder form of bipolar I disorder. It's a separate diagnosis. While the manic episodes of bipolar I disorder can be severe and dangerous, people with bipolar II disorder can be depressed for longer periods of time.
Bipolar disorder can start at any age, but usually it's diagnosed in the teenage years or early 20s. Symptoms can differ from person to person, and symptoms may vary over time.
Causes for Bipolar disorder :
While it's not known what causes bipolar disorder, these factors may be involved:
Biological differences. People with bipolar disorder appear to have physical changes in their brains. The importance of these changes is still uncertain, but more research may help identify why these changes happen.
Genetics. Bipolar disorder is more common in people who have a first-degree relative, such as a sibling or parent, with the condition. Researchers are trying to find genes that may cause bipolar disorder.
Risk Factors for Bipolar disorder:
Factors that may raise the risk of getting bipolar disorder or cause the first episode include:
Having a first-degree relative, such as a parent or sibling, with bipolar disorder.
Periods of high stress, such as the death of a loved one or another traumatic event.
Drug or alcohol misuse.
Complications for Bipolar disorder:
Left untreated, bipolar disorder can lead to serious problems that affect every area of your life, including:
Problems related to drug and alcohol misuse.
Suicide or suicide attempts.
Legal or financial problems.
Trouble getting along with others.
Poor work or school performance.
Preventions for Bipolar disorder
There's no sure way to prevent bipolar disorder. But getting treated as soon as you notice a mental health disorder can help stop bipolar disorder or other mental health conditions from getting worse.
If you've been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, here are some ways you can stop minor symptoms from becoming full-blown episodes of mania or depression:
Pay attention to warning signs. Talking with your care team about symptoms early on can stop episodes from getting worse. You may have found a pattern to your bipolar episodes and what causes them. Call your healthcare professional or mental health professional if you feel you're starting to have an episode of depression or mania. Ask your family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Get enough sleep. Sleep disruptions often cause bipolar instability.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol. Drinking alcohol or taking street drugs can make your symptoms worse and make them more likely to come back.
Take your medicines as directed. You may be tempted to stop treatment, but don't. Stopping your medicine or lowering your dose on your own may cause withdrawal effects. Also, your symptoms may get worse or return.
Condition name:Bird flu (avian influenza)
Overview of Bird flu (avian influenza):
Bird flu, also called avian influenza, is caused by influenza type A virus infections in bird species. Depending on the strain, bird flu may cause the bird to have no symptoms, mild illness, serious illness or lead to the death of the bird.
Bird flu rarely infects humans. But health officials worry because influenza A viruses that infect birds can change, called mutate, to infect humans and spread from person to person more often. Because a new strain of bird flu would be a new virus to humans, a mutated strain like that could spread quickly around the world.
People most often catch a bird flu virus from close, long-term contact with live, domesticated poultry typically on farms or in backyard coops. People also may catch bird flu through contact with wild birds or another type of animal. Bird flu rarely has spread from person to person.
In humans, flu is a viral infection of the nose, throat and lungs, which are part of the respiratory system. Symptoms of bird flu in humans are similar to flu symptoms and may be mild to serious.
There are no home remedies available for Bird flu (avian influenza) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bird flu (avian influenza) :
Bird flu symptoms can be mild to serious in a person. Symptoms typically show up within seven days of contact with the virus but can take as long as two weeks. A person can get infected from direct contact with an infected animal, or the bedding or stool of the animal.
Flu viruses have similar symptoms. So you need to be tested to check if you have a bird flu infection.
Common bird flu symptoms include:
Fever.
Problems breathing.
Pink eye, also called conjunctivitis.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Loose stool, called diarrhea.
Bird flu may cause breathing problems more often than other kinds of flu. And during bird flu pandemics, the risk that a person with flu will need a machine to help them breathe is higher.
Causes for Bird flu (avian influenza) :
Influenza is caused by viruses that infect the cells that line the nose, throat and lungs.
Flu virus particles spread through breath, saliva, mucus or stool. Bird flu in humans can happen when you inhale virus particles. You also can catch the virus if you touch an object with flu particles on it, and then touch your eyes, nose or mouth.
People most often catch bird flu from close, long-term contact with live, domesticated poultry typically on farms or in backyard coops. Rarely, people are exposed to bird flu by contact with wild birds or another type of animal.
But birds you may see in a park or yard, such as crows or sparrows, aren't a high risk. They don't usually carry bird flu viruses that infect people or farm animals.
It may be possible to be exposed to bird flu through undercooked foods, such as eggs or poultry. In places where bird flu has spread to dairy cows, it may be possible to get bird flu through raw dairy products. But dairy products that have been heated to kill germs, called pasteurization, are not a risk for bird flu.
Risk Factors for Bird flu (avian influenza):
The risk of a human catching a bird flu is low.
Contact with sick poultry or their environment is the most common bird flu risk for people. Infected birds can spread the virus through their breath, saliva, mucus or stool.
Rarely, people have caught bird flu after contact with wild birds or other animals. And sometimes humans have passed a bird flu to other humans.
Complications for Bird flu (avian influenza):
People with bird flu may have worsening medical issues or new health problems. Some may be life-threatening.
Complications include:
Worsening of chronic lung conditions, such as asthma or cystic fibrosis.
Ear and sinus infection.
Failure of the respiratory system, called acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Kidney problems.
Heart problems.
Bleeding in the lungs, collapsed lung or bacterial pneumonia.
Sepsis.
Preventions for Bird flu (avian influenza)
To prevent bird flu, follow all recommended actions to protect yourself if you work with animals as a job.
If you are traveling to a place where bird flu is spreading, avoid poultry farms and bird markets if possible. Cook food fully and wash hands with soap and water after handling food and animals.
And make sure to get your seasonal flu vaccine every year. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends annual flu vaccination for everyone age 6 months or older. It doesn't prevent bird flu, but the seasonal flu vaccine can help you avoid having two flu viruses at the same time.
If a bird flu virus leads to a human pandemic, public health agencies have plans for vaccine development and administration.
People can take actions to further lower the risk of getting bird flu in many ways.
Avoid contact with animals who are sick or may be sick. Wild or domestic, keep birds at a distance to avoid any germs they may carry.
Wear eye, nose and mouth protective gear when needed. Flu viruses get in the body through the mouth, nose or eyes. Wear eye protection, a face mask and gloves to help keep the virus out if you're in an area where it might be present.
Wash your hands with soap and water. This is especially important after touching animals or surfaces that may be dirty with animal mucus, saliva or stool.
Getting bird flu from food is very rare. But it's a good idea to follow safe food handling recommendations.
Avoid spreading germs in the kitchen. Use hot, soapy water to wash all surfaces that have come into contact with raw poultry, meat, seafood or eggs.
Cook food fully. Cook chicken until it reaches an internal minimum temperature of 165 F (74 C). Cook eggs until the white and yolk are firm. Egg dishes, such as quiche, should reach 160 F (71 C). Cook beef to 145 F (63 C) and let it rest for 3 minutes. Cook ground beef to 160 F (71 C).
Avoid raw dairy products. Dairy milk that is heated to kill germs is called pasteurized. In the U.S., dairy milk and foods made with it say on the Nutrition Facts label if the milk is pasteurized. Raw milk isn't pasteurized, so it is more likely to make you sick.
Condition name:Black hairy tongue
Overview of Black hairy tongue:
Black hairy tongue is a condition of the tongue that gives it a dark, furry look. The look usually results from a buildup of dead skin cells on the many tiny, rounded bumps on the surface of the tongue. These bumps, called papillae, contain taste buds. When these bumps become longer than usual, they can easily trap and be stained by tobacco, food, drinks, bacteria or yeast, or other substances.
Black hairy tongue may look alarming, but it's usually painless and doesn't cause any health problems. The condition usually goes away by dealing with the causes and by regular mouth and tongue cleaning.
Home Remedies for Black hairy tongue:
To keep your mouth and tongue healthy:
Brush your tongue. Give your tongue a gentle brushing whenever you brush your teeth. This removes dead cells, bacteria and food bits. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush or a flexible tongue scraper.
Brush after eating. Brush your teeth at least twice a day and ideally after every meal. Use a fluoride toothpaste.
Floss at least once a day. Proper flossing gets rid of food bits and plaque from between your teeth.
Visit your dentist regularly. Get professional teeth cleanings and regular mouth exams. This can prevent problems or help your dentist spot them early. Your dentist can let you know how often you should visit.
Eat a healthy diet. Drink plenty of water and eat a balanced diet that includes fresh fruits and vegetables.
Symptoms for Black hairy tongue :
Symptoms of black hairy tongue include:
Black color of the tongue, but the color may be brown, green, yellow or white.
A hairy or furry look to the tongue.
Changed taste or a metallic taste in your mouth.
Bad breath.
Gagging or tickling feeling in your mouth, if the papillae are very large.
Rarely, a burning feeling on the tongue if hairy black tongue is caused by a yeast or bacterial infection.
Causes for Black hairy tongue :
Black hairy tongue usually happens when the many tiny, rounded bumps on the tongue, called papillae, grow too long because they don't shed dead skin cells. Food, drinks, tobacco, bacteria or yeast, and other substances can get trapped on the papillae and stain them. This makes the tongue look dark and hairy.
The cause of black hairy tongue can't always be found. Possible causes of black hairy tongue include:
Changes in the healthy bacteria or yeast found in the mouth when taking antibiotics.
Poor cleaning of the mouth and tongue.
Dry mouth.
Eating a soft diet that doesn't help to rub dead skin cells from your tongue.
Regularly using mouthwashes that have oxidizing agents, such as peroxide, that can irritate your mouth.
Using tobacco.
Drinking a lot of coffee or black tea.
Regularly drinking large amounts of alcohol.
Certain medicines.
Having a condition that lowers your ability to fight infections, such as cancer or HIV.
Risk Factors for Black hairy tongue:
Poor mouth and tongue cleaning, dry mouth, and eating only soft foods may raise your risk of black hairy tongue.
If you're male or an older adult, if you smoke, or if you've had hairy black tongue in the past, you may have a higher risk of the condition.
There are no Complications available for Black hairy tongue in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Black hairy tongue in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bladder cancer
Overview of Bladder cancer:
Bladder cancer is a common type of cancer that begins in the cells of the bladder. The bladder is a hollow muscular organ in your lower abdomen that stores urine.
Bladder cancer most often begins in the cells (urothelial cells) that line the inside of your bladder. Urothelial cells are also found in your kidneys and the tubes (ureters) that connect the kidneys to the bladder. Urothelial cancer can happen in the kidneys and ureters, too, but it's much more common in the bladder.
Most bladder cancers are diagnosed at an early stage, when the cancer is highly treatable. But even early-stage bladder cancers can come back after successful treatment. For this reason, people with bladder cancer typically need follow-up tests for years after treatment to look for bladder cancer that recurs.
There are no home remedies available for Bladder cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bladder cancer :
Bladder cancer signs and symptoms may include:
Blood in urine (hematuria), which may cause urine to appear bright red or cola colored, though sometimes the urine appears normal and blood is detected on a lab test
Frequent urination
Painful urination
Back pain
Causes for Bladder cancer :
Bladder cancer begins when cells in the bladder develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cell to multiply rapidly and to go on living when healthy cells would die. The abnormal cells form a tumor that can invade and destroy normal body tissue. In time, the abnormal cells can break away and spread (metastasize) through the body.
Risk Factors for Bladder cancer:
Factors that may increase bladder cancer risk include:
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes, cigars or pipes may increase the risk of bladder cancer by causing harmful chemicals to accumulate in the urine. When you smoke, your body processes the chemicals in the smoke and excretes some of them in your urine. These harmful chemicals may damage the lining of your bladder, which can increase your risk of cancer.
Increasing age. Bladder cancer risk increases as you age. Though it can occur at any age, most people diagnosed with bladder cancer are older than 55.
Being male. Men are more likely to develop bladder cancer than women are.
Exposure to certain chemicals. Your kidneys play a key role in filtering harmful chemicals from your bloodstream and moving them into your bladder. Because of this, it's thought that being around certain chemicals may increase the risk of bladder cancer. Chemicals linked to bladder cancer risk include arsenic and chemicals used in the manufacture of dyes, rubber, leather, textiles and paint products.
Previous cancer treatment. Treatment with the anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide increases the risk of bladder cancer. People who received radiation treatments aimed at the pelvis for a previous cancer have a higher risk of developing bladder cancer.
Chronic bladder inflammation. Chronic or repeated urinary infections or inflammations (cystitis), such as might happen with long-term use of a urinary catheter, may increase the risk of a squamous cell bladder cancer. In some areas of the world, squamous cell carcinoma is linked to chronic bladder inflammation caused by the parasitic infection known as schistosomiasis.
Personal or family history of cancer. If you've had bladder cancer, you're more likely to get it again. If one of your blood relatives — a parent, sibling or child — has a history of bladder cancer, you may have an increased risk of the disease, although it's rare for bladder cancer to run in families. A family history of Lynch syndrome, also known as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), can increase the risk of cancer in the urinary system, as well as in the colon, uterus, ovaries and other organs.
There are no Complications available for Bladder cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Bladder cancer
Although there's no guaranteed way to prevent bladder cancer, you can take steps to help reduce your risk. For instance:
Don't smoke. If you don't smoke, don't start. If you smoke, talk to your doctor about a plan to help you stop. Support groups, medications and other methods may help you quit.
Take caution around chemicals. If you work with chemicals, follow all safety instructions to avoid exposure.
Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables. Choose a diet rich in a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables. The antioxidants in fruits and vegetables may help reduce your risk of cancer.
Condition name:Bladder exstrophy
Overview of Bladder exstrophy:
Bladder exstrophy (EK-stroh-fee) is a rare birth defect in which the bladder develops outside the fetus. The exposed bladder can't store urine or function normally, resulting in urine leakage (incontinence).
Problems caused by bladder exstrophy vary in severity. They can include defects in the bladder, genitals and pelvic bones, as well as defects in the intestines and reproductive organs.
Bladder exstrophy may be spotted on a routine ultrasound during pregnancy. Sometimes, though, the defect isn't visible until the baby is born. Babies born with bladder exstrophy will need surgery to correct the defects.
There are no home remedies available for Bladder exstrophy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bladder exstrophy :
Bladder exstrophy is the most common in the larger group of birth defects called the bladder exstrophy-epispadias complex (BEEC). Children with BEEC have one of the following:
Epispadias. This is the least severe form of BEEC, in which the tube to expel urine (urethra) doesn't fully develop.
Bladder exstrophy. This defect causes the bladder to form on the outside of the body. The bladder is also turned inside out. Usually, bladder exstrophy will involve organs of the urinary tract, as well as the digestive and reproductive systems. Defects of the abdominal wall, bladder, genitals, pelvic bones, final section of the large intestine (rectum) and opening at the end of the rectum (anus) can occur.
Children with bladder exstrophy also have vesicoureteral reflux. This condition causes urine to flow the wrong way — from the bladder back up into the tubes that connect to the kidneys (ureters). Children with bladder exstrophy also have epispadias.
Cloacal exstrophy. Cloacal exstrophy (kloe-A-kul EK-stroh-fee) is the most serious form of BEEC. In this condition, the rectum, bladder and genitals don't fully separate as the fetus develops. These organs may not be correctly formed, and the pelvic bones are affected as well.
The kidneys, backbone and spinal cord also may be affected. Most children with cloacal exstrophy have spinal abnormalities, including spina bifida. Children born with protruding abdominal organs probably also have cloacal exstrophy or bladder exstrophy.
Causes for Bladder exstrophy :
The cause of bladder exstrophy is unknown. Researchers think that a combination of genetic and environmental factors likely plays a role.
What is known is that as the fetus grows, a structure called the cloaca (klo-A-kuh) — where reproductive, urinary and digestive openings all come together — doesn't develop properly in babies who develop bladder exstrophy. Defects in the cloaca can vary a lot depending on the age of the fetus when the developmental error occurs.
Risk Factors for Bladder exstrophy:
Factors that increase the risk of bladder exstrophy include:
Family history. Firstborn children, children of a parent with bladder exstrophy or siblings of a child with bladder exstrophy have an increased chance of being born with the condition.
Race. Bladder exstrophy is more common in whites than in other races.
Sex. More boys than girls are born with bladder exstrophy.
Use of assisted reproduction. Children born through assisted reproductive technology, such as IVF, have a higher risk of bladder exstrophy.
There are no Complications available for Bladder exstrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bladder exstrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Blood in urine (hematuria)
Overview of Blood in urine (hematuria):
It can be scary to see blood in urine, also called hematuria. In many cases, the cause is harmless. But blood in urine also can be a sign of a serious illness.
If you can see the blood, it's called gross hematuria. Blood that can't be seen with the naked eye is called microscopic hematuria. It's such a small amount that it can be seen only under a microscope when a lab tests the urine. Either way, it's important to figure out the reason for the bleeding.
Treatment depends on the cause.
There are no home remedies available for Blood in urine (hematuria) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Blood in urine (hematuria) :
Blood in the urine can look pink, red or cola-colored. Red blood cells cause the urine to change color. It takes only a small amount of blood to turn urine red.
The bleeding often isn't painful. But if blood clots get passed in the urine, that can hurt.
Causes for Blood in urine (hematuria) :
This condition happens when the kidneys or other parts of the urinary tract let blood cells leak into urine. Different problems can cause this leaking to happen, including:
Urinary tract infections (UTIs). These happen when bacteria get into the tube through which urine leaves the body, called the urethra. Then the bacteria multiply in the bladder. UTIs can cause bleeding that makes urine look red, pink or brown. With a UTI, you also may have a strong urge to pee that lasts a long time. You may have pain and burning while peeing. Your urine may have a very strong smell too.
Kidney infection. This type of UTI also is called pyelonephritis. Kidney infections can happen when bacteria enter the kidneys from the bloodstream. Infections also can happen when bacteria move to the kidneys from a pair of tubes that connect the kidneys with the bladder, called the ureters. Kidney infections can cause the same urine-related symptoms that other UTIs can. But they're more likely to cause a fever and pain in the back, side or groin.
A bladder or kidney stone. The minerals in urine can form crystals on the walls of the kidneys or bladder. Over time, the crystals can become small, hard stones.
The stones are often painless. But they can hurt a lot if they cause a blockage or leave the body through urine. Bladder or kidney stones can cause blood in urine that can be seen with the naked eye as well as bleeding that can be seen only in the lab.
Enlarged prostate. The prostate gland is just below the bladder, and it surrounds the top part of the urethra. It often gets bigger toward middle age. It then puts pressure on the urethra, partly blocking the flow of urine. With an enlarged prostate, you might have trouble peeing, an urgent or lasting need to pee, or blood in the urine. Infection of the prostate, called prostatitis, can cause the same symptoms.
Kidney disease. Blood in urine that can be seen only in the lab is a common symptom of a kidney disease called glomerulonephritis. With this disease, the tiny filters in the kidneys that remove waste from blood become inflamed.
Glomerulonephritis may be part of a condition that affects the whole body, such as diabetes. Or it can happen on its own.
Cancer. Blood in urine that can be seen with the naked eye may be a sign of advanced kidney, bladder or prostate cancer. These cancers might not cause symptoms sooner, when treatments could work better.
Inherited illnesses. A genetic condition that affects red blood cells, called sickle cell anemia, can cause blood in urine. The blood cells could be visible or too tiny to see. A condition that damages tiny blood vessels in the kidneys, called Alport syndrome, also can cause blood in the urine.
Kidney injury. A blow or other injury to the kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood to show up in urine.
Medicines. The anti-cancer drug cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) and the antibiotic penicillin are linked to blood in urine. Medicines that prevent blood clots also are tied to blood in urine. These include medicines that keep blood cells called platelets from sticking together, such as the pain reliever aspirin. Medicines that thin the blood, such as heparin, also may be a cause.
Hard exercise. Blood in the urine can happen after playing contact sports, such as football. It may be linked to bladder damage caused by getting hit. Blood in urine also can happen with long-distance sports, such as marathon running, but it's less clear why. It may be linked to bladder damage or other reasons that don't involve an injury. When hard exercise causes blood in urine, it may go away on its own within a week.
If you see blood in your urine after exercise, don't assume it's from exercising. See your health care provider.
Often the cause of hematuria is unknown.
Risk Factors for Blood in urine (hematuria):
Almost anyone can have red blood cells in the urine. This includes children and teens. Some things that can raise the risk of blood in the urine include:
Age. Middle-aged and older men may be more likely to have hematuria due to an enlarged prostate gland. The risk of some cancers that can cause blood in urine also may rise after the age of 50.
Urinary tract infection. This is one of the top causes of blood that can be seen in children's urine.
Family history. The chances of having blood in the urine may go up if one or more family members have had kidney disease.
Certain medicines. Some pain relievers, blood thinners and antibiotics can raise the risk of blood in urine.
Hard exercise. Marathon runner's hematuria is one nickname for hematuria. Contact sports can raise the risk too.
There are no Complications available for Blood in urine (hematuria) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Blood in urine (hematuria) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Body dysmorphic disorder
Overview of Body dysmorphic disorder:
Body dysmorphic disorder is a mental health condition in which you can't stop thinking about one or more perceived defects or flaws in your appearance — a flaw that appears minor or can't be seen by others. But you may feel so embarrassed, ashamed and anxious that you may avoid many social situations.
When you have body dysmorphic disorder, you intensely focus on your appearance and body image, repeatedly checking the mirror, grooming or seeking reassurance, sometimes for many hours each day. Your perceived flaw and the repetitive behaviors cause you significant distress and impact your ability to function in your daily life.
You may seek out numerous cosmetic procedures to try to "fix" your perceived flaw. Afterward, you may feel temporary satisfaction or a reduction in your distress, but often the anxiety returns and you may resume searching for other ways to fix your perceived flaw.
Treatment of body dysmorphic disorder may include cognitive behavioral therapy and medication.
Home Remedies for Body dysmorphic disorder:
Body dysmorphic disorder warrants treatment from a mental health professional. But you can do some things to build on your treatment plan, such as:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions, even if you don't feel like going. Even if you're feeling well, continue to take your medications. If you stop, symptoms may come back. You could also experience withdrawal-like symptoms from stopping a medication too suddenly.
Learn about your disorder. Education about body dysmorphic disorder can empower you and motivate you to stick to your treatment plan.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your health care provider or mental health provider to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your health care provider or mental health provider if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel.
Practice learned strategies. At home, routinely practice the skills you learn during therapy so they become stronger habits.
Avoid drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and recreational drugs can worsen symptoms or interact with medications.
Get active. Physical activity and exercise can help manage many symptoms, such as depression, stress and anxiety. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or taking up another form of physical activity you enjoy. However, avoid excessive exercise as a way to fix a perceived flaw.
Symptoms for Body dysmorphic disorder :
Signs and symptoms of body dysmorphic disorder include:
Being extremely preoccupied with a perceived flaw in appearance that to others can't be seen or appears minor
Strong belief that you have a defect in your appearance that makes you ugly or deformed
Belief that others take special notice of your appearance in a negative way or mock you
Engaging in behaviors aimed at fixing or hiding the perceived flaw that are difficult to resist or control, such as frequently checking the mirror, grooming or skin picking
Attempting to hide perceived flaws with styling, makeup or clothes
Constantly comparing your appearance with others
Frequently seeking reassurance about your appearance from others
Having perfectionist tendencies
Seeking cosmetic procedures with little satisfaction
Avoiding social situations
Preoccupation with your appearance and excessive thoughts and repetitive behaviors can be unwanted, difficult to control and so time-consuming that they can cause major distress or problems in your social life, work, school or other areas of functioning.
You may excessively focus over one or more parts of your body. The bodily feature that you focus on may change over time. The most common features people tend to fixate about include:
Face, such as nose, complexion, wrinkles, acne and other blemishes
Hair, such as appearance, thinning and baldness
Skin and vein appearance
Breast size
Muscle size and tone
Genitalia
A preoccupation with your body build being too small or not muscular enough (muscle dysmorphia) occurs almost exclusively in males.
Insight about body dysmorphic disorder varies. You may recognize that your beliefs about your perceived flaws may be excessive or not be true, or think that they probably are true, or be absolutely convinced that they're true. The more convinced you are of your beliefs, the more distress and disruption you may experience in your life.
Causes for Body dysmorphic disorder :
It's not known specifically what causes body dysmorphic disorder. Like many other mental health conditions, body dysmorphic disorder may result from a combination of issues, such as a family history of the disorder, negative evaluations or experiences about your body or self-image, and abnormal brain function or abnormal levels of the brain chemical called serotonin.
Risk Factors for Body dysmorphic disorder:
Body dysmorphic disorder typically starts in the early teenage years and it affects both males and females.
Certain factors seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering body dysmorphic disorder, including:
Having blood relatives with body dysmorphic disorder or obsessive-compulsive disorder
Negative life experiences, such as childhood teasing, neglect or abuse
Certain personality traits, such as perfectionism
Societal pressure or expectations of beauty
Having another mental health condition, such as anxiety or depression
Complications for Body dysmorphic disorder:
Complications that may be caused by or associated with body dysmorphic disorder include, for example:
Low self-esteem
Social isolation
Major depression or other mood disorders
Suicidal thoughts or behavior
Anxiety disorders, including social anxiety disorder (social phobia)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder
Eating disorders
Substance misuse
Health problems from behaviors such as skin picking
Physical pain or risk of disfigurement due to repeated surgical interventions
Preventions for Body dysmorphic disorder
There's no known way to prevent body dysmorphic disorder. However, because body dysmorphic disorder often starts in the early teenage years, identifying the disorder early and starting treatment may be of some benefit.
Long-term maintenance treatment also may help prevent a relapse of body dysmorphic disorder symptoms.
Condition name:Bone cancer
Overview of Bone cancer:
Bone cancer is a growth of cells that starts in a bone. Bone cancer can start in any bone. But it most often affects the thighbone.
The term "bone cancer" doesn't include cancer that starts in another part of the body and spreads to the bones. Instead, cancer that spreads to the bone is named for the place it began. For example, cancer that starts in the lungs and spreads to the bones is still lung cancer. Healthcare professionals might call it lung cancer that has metastasized to the bones.
Cancer that starts in the bones is rare. Different types of bone cancers exist. Some types of bone cancers mostly happen in children. Other types happen mostly in adults.
Common bone cancer treatments include surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. The best treatment for your bone cancer depends on the type of bone cancer, which bone is affected and other factors.
There are no home remedies available for Bone cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bone cancer :
Signs and symptoms of bone cancer include:
Bone pain.
Swelling and tenderness near the affected area.
Weakened bone, which can lead to a broken bone.
Feeling very tired.
Losing weight without trying.
Causes for Bone cancer :
The cause of most bone cancers isn't known. Bone cancer starts when cells in or near a bone develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Bone cancer:
Things that increase the risk of bone cancer include:
Inherited genetic syndromes. Certain rare genetic syndromes passed through families increase the risk of bone cancer. Examples include Li-Fraumeni syndrome and hereditary retinoblastoma.
Other bone conditions. Some other bone conditions may increase the risk of bone cancer. The other bone conditions include Paget's disease of bone and fibrous dysplasia.
Cancer treatment. Radiation therapy for cancer and some kinds of chemotherapy medicines used to treat cancer may increase the risk of bone cancer.
Healthcare professionals haven't found any ways to prevent bone cancer.
There are no Complications available for Bone cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bone cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Bone spurs
Overview of Bone spurs:
Bone spurs are bony growths that form along bone edges. They're also called osteophytes. Bone spurs often form where bones meet each other — in the joints. They also can form on the bones of the spine.
The main cause of bone spurs is the joint damage linked with the most common type of arthritis. This is called osteoarthritis. Bone spurs often cause no symptoms. You might not notice them, and your healthcare team might not happen to find them for years. Bone spurs might not need treatment. If treatment is needed, it depends on where spurs are located and how they affect your health.
Home Remedies for Bone spurs:
If you are overweight and have osteoarthritis of the hips or knees, weight loss may help ease bone spur pain. Even a small amount of weight loss may help.
Exercise can help people lose extra weight. It also can make muscles around joints stronger. Types of exercise that can help include walking, biking and swimming.
Symptoms for Bone spurs :
Often, bone spurs don't cause symptoms. You might not know you have bone spurs until an X-ray for another condition reveals the growths. But sometimes, bone spurs can cause pain and loss of motion in your joints.
The symptoms depend on where the bone spurs are. Examples include:
Knee. Bone spurs in the knee can make it painful to extend and bend the leg.
Spine. On the small bones that form the spine, bone spurs can narrow the space that contains the spinal cord. These bone spurs can pinch the spinal cord or its nerve roots. That can cause weakness or numbness in the arms or legs.
Hip. Bone spurs can make it painful to move the hip. Sometimes, it might feel like the pain is in the knee or the thigh. Depending on their placement, bone spurs can reduce the range of motion in the hip joint.
Causes for Bone spurs :
Joint damage from osteoarthritis is the most common cause of bone spurs. Osteoarthritis breaks down connective tissue called cartilage that cushions the ends of bones. While this happens, the body tries to repair the loss by creating bone spurs near the damaged area.
Risk Factors for Bone spurs:
The risk of bone spurs is higher in people who have arthritis.
There are no Complications available for Bone spurs in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bone spurs in the knowledge baseCondition name:Borderline personality disorder
Overview of Borderline personality disorder:
Borderline personality disorder is a mental health condition that affects the way people feel about themselves and others, making it hard to function in everyday life. It includes a pattern of unstable, intense relationships, as well as impulsiveness and an unhealthy way of seeing themselves. Impulsiveness involves having extreme emotions and acting or doing things without thinking about them first.
People with borderline personality disorder have a strong fear of abandonment or being left alone. Even though they want to have loving and lasting relationships, the fear of being abandoned often leads to mood swings and anger. It also leads to impulsiveness and self-injury that may push others away.
Borderline personality disorder usually begins by early adulthood. The condition is most serious in young adulthood. Mood swings, anger and impulsiveness often get better with age. But the main issues of self-image and fear of being abandoned, as well as relationship issues, go on.
If you have borderline personality disorder, know that many people with this condition get better with treatment. They can learn to live stabler, more-fulfilling lives.
There are no home remedies available for Borderline personality disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Borderline personality disorder :
Borderline personality disorder affects how you feel about yourself, relate to others and behave.
Symptoms may include:
A strong fear of abandonment. This includes going to extreme measures so you're not separated or rejected, even if these fears are made up.
A pattern of unstable, intense relationships, such as believing someone is perfect one moment and then suddenly believing the person doesn't care enough or is cruel.
Quick changes in how you see yourself. This includes shifting goals and values, as well as seeing yourself as bad or as if you don't exist.
Periods of stress-related paranoia and loss of contact with reality. These periods can last from a few minutes to a few hours.
Impulsive and risky behavior, such as gambling, dangerous driving, unsafe sex, spending sprees, binge eating, drug misuse, or sabotaging success by suddenly quitting a good job or ending a positive relationship.
Threats of suicide or self-injury, often in response to fears of separation or rejection.
Wide mood swings that last from a few hours to a few days. These mood swings can include periods of being very happy, irritable or anxious, or feeling shame.
Ongoing feelings of emptiness.
Inappropriate, strong anger, such as losing your temper often, being sarcastic or bitter, or physically fighting.
Causes for Borderline personality disorder :
As with other mental health conditions, the causes of borderline personality disorder aren't fully known. In addition to environmental factors — such as a history of child abuse or neglect — borderline personality disorder may be linked to:
Genetics. Some studies of twins and families suggest that personality disorders may be inherited or strongly related to other mental health conditions among family members.
Changes in the brain. Some research has shown that changes in certain areas of the brain affect emotions, impulsiveness and aggression.
Risk Factors for Borderline personality disorder:
Factors related to personality development that can raise the risk of getting borderline personality disorder include:
Hereditary predisposition. You may be at a higher risk if a blood relative — your mother, father, brother or sister — has the same or a like condition.
Stressful childhood. Many people with the condition report being sexually or physically abused or neglected during childhood. Some people have lost or were separated from a parent or close caregiver when they were young or had parents or caregivers with substance misuse or other mental health issues. Others have been exposed to hostile conflict and unstable family relationships.
Complications for Borderline personality disorder:
Borderline personality disorder can damage many areas of your life. It can negatively affect close relationships, jobs, school, social activities and how you see yourself.
This can result in:
Repeated job changes or losses.
Not finishing an education.
Multiple legal issues, such as jail time.
Conflict-filled relationships, marital stress or divorce.
Injuring yourself, such as by cutting or burning, and frequent stays in the hospital.
Abusive relationships.
Unplanned pregnancies, sexually transmitted infections, motor vehicle accidents, and physical fights due to impulsive and risky behavior.
Attempted suicide or death due to suicide.
Also, you may have other mental health conditions, such as:
Depression.
Alcohol or other substance misuse.
Anxiety disorders.
Eating disorders.
Bipolar disorder.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Other personality disorders.
There are no preventive measures available for Borderline personality disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Botulism
Overview of Botulism:
Botulism is a rare but serious condition caused by a toxin that attacks the body's nerves. Botulism may cause life-threatening symptoms. A type of bacteria called Clostridium botulinum produces the toxin. Botulism can occur as the result of food or wound contamination. The condition can also occur when bacterial spores grow in the intestines of infants. In rare cases, botulism can also be caused by medical treatment or bioterrorism.
Three common forms of botulism are:
Foodborne botulism. The harmful bacteria thrive and make the toxin in environments with little oxygen, such as in home-canned food.
Wound botulism. If these bacteria get into a cut, they can cause a dangerous infection that makes the toxin.
Infant botulism. This most generic form of botulism begins after spores of C. botulinum bacteria grow in a baby's intestinal tract. It typically occurs in babies between the ages of 2 months and 8 months. In rare cases, this form of intestinal botulism also affects adults.
Occasionally, botulism happens when too much botulinum toxin is injected for cosmetic or medical reasons. This rare form is called iatrogenic botulism. The term "iatrogenic" means an illness caused by medical exam or treatment.
Another rare form of botulism can occur from inhaling toxins. This may happen as the result of bioterrorism.
All forms of botulism can be fatal and are considered medical emergencies.
There are no home remedies available for Botulism in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Botulism :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Botulism in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Botulism in the knowledge baseComplications for Botulism:
Because it affects muscle control throughout your body, botulinum toxin can cause many complications. The most immediate danger is that you won't be able to breathe. Being unable to breathe is a common cause of death in botulism. Other complications, which may need rehabilitation, may include:
Difficulty speaking
Trouble swallowing
Long-lasting weakness
Shortness of breath
There are no preventive measures available for Botulism in the knowledge baseCondition name:Brachial plexus injury
Overview of Brachial plexus injury:
The brachial plexus is the group of nerves that sends signals from the spinal cord to the shoulder, arm and hand. A brachial plexus injury happens when these nerves are stretched, squeezed together, or in the most serious cases, ripped apart or torn away from the spinal cord.
Minor brachial plexus injuries, called stingers or burners, are common in contact sports, such as football. Babies sometimes get brachial plexus injuries when they're born. Other health issues, such as inflammation or tumors, may affect the brachial plexus.
The most serious brachial plexus injuries happen during car or motorcycle accidents. Bad brachial plexus injuries can leave the arm paralyzed, but surgery may help.
There are no home remedies available for Brachial plexus injury in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Brachial plexus injury :
Symptoms of a brachial plexus injury can differ depending on how serious the injury is and where it's located. Usually only one arm is affected.
Causes for Brachial plexus injury :
Brachial plexus injuries in the upper nerves happen when the shoulder is forced down on one side of the body and the head is pushed to the other side in the opposite direction. The lower nerves are more likely to be injured when the arm is forced above the head.
These injuries can happen in many ways, including:
Contact sports. Many football players have burners or stingers. These are caused when the brachial plexus nerves get stretched past their limit during clashes with other players.
Birth. Newborns can have brachial plexus injuries. This is more common in babies with a high birth weight, a very long labor and a bottom-first, also called breech, presentation. If a baby's shoulders get stuck in the birth canal, brachial plexus palsy is more likely. Most often, the upper nerves are injured. This is called Erb palsy.
Injuries. Many injuries — including those from motor vehicle accidents, motorcycle accidents, falls or bullet wounds — can damage the brachial plexus.
Tumors and cancer treatments. Tumors can grow on their own. Rarely, they can form because of a health condition, such as neurofibromatosis, or after radiation treatment.
Risk Factors for Brachial plexus injury:
Playing contact sports, especially football and wrestling, or being in high-speed motor vehicle accidents increases the risk of brachial plexus injury.
Complications for Brachial plexus injury:
Many mild brachial plexus injuries heal over time with few to no issues. But some injuries can cause short-term or lasting problems, such as:
Stiff joints. If you have hand or arm paralysis, the joints can get stiff. This can make it hard to move, even if you are able to use your hand or arm again. For that reason, your healthcare professional may suggest ongoing physical therapy during your recovery.
Pain. This is caused by nerve damage and may be lifelong.
Numbness. If you lose feeling in the arm or hand, you're at risk of burning or injuring yourself without knowing it.
Muscle atrophy. Nerves regrow slowly and can take many years to heal after injury. During that time, not using your muscles may cause them to break down.
Permanent disability. How well you recover from a serious brachial plexus injury depends on many things, such as your age and the type, location and seriousness of the injury. Even with surgery, some people have muscle weakness or paralysis that lasts for the rest of their lives.
Preventions for Brachial plexus injury
Although a brachial plexus injury can't always be avoided, you can take steps to reduce your risk of complications after getting hurt:
For yourself. If you can't use the hand or arm for a short time, daily range-of-motion exercises and physical therapy can help prevent joint stiffness. Avoid burns or cuts, as you may not feel them if you have numbness.
If you're an athlete with a brachial plexus injury, your healthcare professional may suggest that you wear padding to protect the area when you play sports.
For your child. If your child has brachial plexus palsy, it's important to exercise your child's joints and working muscles every day. You can start when your baby is just a few weeks old. This helps stop the joints from becoming permanently stiff. It also keeps your child's working muscles strong and healthy.
Condition name:Bradycardia
Overview of Bradycardia:
Bradycardia (brad-e-KAHR-dee-uh) is a slow heart rate. The hearts of adults at rest usually beat between 60 and 100 times a minute. If you have bradycardia, your heart beats fewer than 60 times a minute.
Bradycardia can be a serious problem if the heart rate is very slow and the heart can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the body. If this happens, you may feel dizzy, very tired or weak, and short of breath. Sometimes bradycardia doesn't cause symptoms or complications.
A slow heart rate isn't always a concern. For example, a resting heart rate between 40 and 60 beats a minute is quite common during sleep and in some people, particularly healthy young adults and trained athletes.
If bradycardia is severe, an implanted pacemaker may be needed to help the heart maintain an appropriate rate.
There are no home remedies available for Bradycardia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Bradycardia :
A slower than typical heartbeat (bradycardia) can prevent the brain and other organs from getting enough oxygen, possibly causing these signs and symptoms:
Chest pain
Confusion or memory problems
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Easily tiring during physical activity
Fatigue
Fainting (syncope) or near-fainting
Shortness of breath
Causes for Bradycardia :
Bradycardia can be caused by:
Heart tissue damage related to aging
Damage to heart tissues from heart disease or heart attack
A heart condition present at birth (congenital heart defect)
Inflammation of heart tissue (myocarditis)
A complication of heart surgery
An underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism)
Imbalance of chemicals in the blood, such as potassium or calcium
Repeated pauses in breathing during sleep (obstructive sleep apnea)
Inflammatory disease, such as rheumatic fever or lupus
Certain medications, including sedatives, opioids, and drugs used to treat heart rhythm disorders, high blood pressure and certain mental health disorders
To better understand the causes of bradycardia, it may be helpful to know how the heart typically beats.
The typical heart has four chambers — two upper chambers (atria) and two lower chambers (ventricles). Within the upper right chamber of the heart (right atrium) is a group of cells called the sinus node. The sinus node is the heart's natural pacemaker. It produces the signal that starts each heartbeat.
Bradycardia occurs when these signals slow down or are blocked.
Risk Factors for Bradycardia:
Bradycardia is often associated with damage to heart tissue from some type of heart disease. Anything that increases the risk of heart problems can increase the risk of bradycardia. Risk factors for heart disease include:
Older age
High blood pressure
Smoking
Heavy alcohol use
Illegal drug use
Stress and anxiety
Healthy-lifestyle changes or medical treatment may help lower the risk of heart disease.
Complications for Bradycardia:
Possible complications of bradycardia can include:
Frequent fainting
Inability of the heart to pump enough blood (heart failure)
Sudden cardiac arrest or sudden death
Preventions for Bradycardia
Bradycardia can be caused by certain medications, particularly if they are taken at high doses, so it's important to take all medications as directed. Although bradycardia is not typically preventable, health care providers recommend strategies to reduce the risk of developing heart disease. Take the following heart-healthy steps:
Get regular exercise. Your health care provider may give you recommendations about how much and what type of exercise is best for you.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a healthy, low-fat, low-salt, low-sugar diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of developing heart disease.
Keep blood pressure and cholesterol under control. Make lifestyle changes and take medications as prescribed to manage high blood pressure, diabetes and high cholesterol.
Don't smoke. If you need help quitting, talk to your health care provider about strategies or programs to help.
If you drink, do so in moderation. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men. If you can't control your alcohol use, talk to a health care provider about a program to quit drinking and manage other behaviors related to alcohol abuse.
Manage stress. Intense emotions may affect heart rate. Some ways to relieve stress are getting regular exercise, joining a support group and trying relaxation techniques, such as yoga.
Go to scheduled checkups. Have regular physical exams and report signs or symptoms to your health care provider.
Condition name:Brain aneurysm
Overview of Brain aneurysm:
A brain aneurysm (AN-yoo-riz-um) — also known as a cerebral aneurysm or intracranial aneurysm — is a bulge or ballooning in a blood vessel in the brain. An aneurysm often looks like a berry hanging on a stem.
Experts think brain aneurysms form and grow because blood flowing through the blood vessel puts pressure on a weak area of the vessel wall. This can increase the size of the brain aneurysm. If the brain aneurysm leaks or ruptures, it causes bleeding in the brain, known as a hemorrhagic stroke.
Most often, a ruptured brain aneurysm occurs in the space between the brain and the thin tissues covering the brain. This type of hemorrhagic stroke is called a subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Brain aneurysms are common. But most brain aneurysms aren't serious, especially if they're small. Most brain aneurysms don't rupture. They usually don't cause symptoms or cause health problems. In many cases, brain aneurysms are found during tests for other conditions.
However, a ruptured aneurysm quickly becomes life-threatening and requires medical treatment right away.
If a brain aneurysm hasn't ruptured, treatment may be appropriate in some cases. Treatment of an unruptured brain aneurysm may prevent a rupture in the future. Talk with your health care provider to make sure you understand the best options for your specific needs.
Home Remedies for Brain aneurysm:
Lifestyle changes to lower your risk
If you have an unruptured brain aneurysm, you may lower the risk of rupture by making these lifestyle changes:
Don't smoke cigarettes. If you smoke, talk to your health care provider. Your provider can suggest strategies or a treatment program to help you quit.
Control your blood pressure if you have high blood pressure.
Eat a healthy diet and exercise. Changes in diet and exercise can help lower blood pressure. Talk to your health care provider about changes that are appropriate for you.
Don't use drugs such as cocaine, methamphetamine or others. If you do use these drugs and would like to quit, talk to your provider.
Symptoms for Brain aneurysm :
Most brain aneurysms that haven't ruptured don't cause symptoms. This is especially true if they're small. Brain aneurysms may be found during imaging tests that are done for other conditions.
However, a ruptured aneurysm is a very serious condition, typically causing a severe headache. And if an unruptured aneurysm presses against brain tissue or nerves, it may cause pain and other symptoms.
Causes for Brain aneurysm :
Brain aneurysms are caused by thinning artery walls. Aneurysms often form at forks or branches in arteries because those areas of the vessels are weaker. Although aneurysms can appear anywhere in the brain, they're most common in arteries at the base of the brain.
Risk Factors for Brain aneurysm:
Several factors can contribute to weakness in an artery wall. These factors may increase the risk of a brain aneurysm or aneurysm rupture.
Some of these risk factors develop over time. But some conditions present at birth can increase the risk of developing a brain aneurysm.
Risk factors include:
Older age. Brain aneurysms can occur at any age. However, they're more common in adults between ages 30 and 60.
Being female. Brain aneurysms are more common in women than in men.
Cigarette smoking. Smoking is a risk factor for brain aneurysms to form and for brain aneurysms to rupture.
High blood pressure. This condition can weaken arteries. Aneurysms are more likely to form and to rupture in weakened arteries.
Drug use, particularly using cocaine. Drug use raises blood pressure. If illicit drugs are used intravenously, it can lead to an infection. An infection can cause a mycotic aneurysm.
Heavy alcohol use. This also can increase blood pressure.
Inherited connective tissue disorders, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome. These disorders weaken blood vessels.
Polycystic kidney disease. This inherited disorder results in fluid-filled sacs in the kidneys. It also may increase blood pressure.
A narrow aorta, known as coarctation of the aorta. The aorta is the large blood vessel that delivers oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body.
Brain arteriovenous malformation, known as AVM. In this condition, arteries and veins in the brain are tangled. This affects blood flow.
A family history of brain aneurysm. Your risk is higher if you have family members who have had a brain aneurysm. This is particularly true if two or more first-degree relatives — such as a parent, brother, sister or child — has had a brain aneurysm. If you have a family history, you can ask your health care provider about getting screened for a brain aneurysm.
Some types of aneurysms may occur after a head injury or from certain blood infections.
Complications for Brain aneurysm:
When a brain aneurysm ruptures, the bleeding usually lasts only a few seconds. However, the blood can cause direct damage to surrounding cells and can kill brain cells. It also increases pressure inside the skull.
If the pressure becomes too high, it may disrupt the blood and oxygen supply to the brain. Loss of consciousness or even death may occur.
Complications that can develop after the rupture of an aneurysm include:
Re-bleeding. An aneurysm that has ruptured or has leaked is at risk of bleeding again. Re-bleeding can cause further damage to brain cells.
Narrowed blood vessels in the brain. After a brain aneurysm ruptures, blood vessels in the brain may contract and narrow. This is known as vasospasm. Vasospasm can cause an ischemic stroke, in which there's limited blood flow to brain cells. This may cause additional cell damage and loss.
A buildup of fluid within the brain, known as hydrocephalus. Most often, a ruptured brain aneurysm occurs in the space between the brain and the thin tissues covering the brain. The blood can block the movement of fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. As a result, an excess of fluid puts pressure on the brain and can damage tissues.
Change in sodium level. Bleeding in the brain can disrupt the balance of sodium in the blood. This may occur from damage to the hypothalamus, an area near the base of the brain. A drop in blood sodium levels can lead to swelling of brain cells and permanent damage.
Preventions for Brain aneurysm
In many cases, brain aneurysms can't be prevented. But there are some changes you can make to lower your risk. They include quitting smoking if you smoke. Also work with your health care provider to lower your blood pressure if it's high. Don't drink large amounts of alcohol or use drugs such as cocaine.
Condition name:Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation)
Overview of Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation):
A brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a tangle of blood vessels that creates irregular connections between arteries and veins in the brain.
Arteries take oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the brain. Veins carry oxygen-depleted blood back to the lungs and heart. A brain AVM disrupts this vital process.
An arteriovenous malformation can develop anywhere in the body, but common locations include the brain and spinal cord. Overall, brain AVMs are rare.
The cause of brain AVMs isn't clear. Most people who have them are born with them, but they can form later in life. Rarely, AVM can be a trait passed down in families.
Some people with brain AVMs experience symptoms such as headaches or seizures. A brain AVM may be found after a brain scan for another health issue. Sometimes a brain AVM is found after the blood vessels burst and bleed, known as a hemorrhage.
Once diagnosed, a brain AVM can be treated to prevent complications such as brain damage or stroke.
There are no home remedies available for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation) :
A brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) may not cause any symptoms until the AVM bursts and bleeds, known as a hemorrhage. In about half of all brain AVMs, a hemorrhage is the first sign of the malformation.
But some people with brain AVMs may experience symptoms other than bleeding, such as:
Seizures.
Headaches or pain in one area of the head.
Muscle weakness or numbness in one part of the body.
Some people may experience more-serious symptoms depending on the location of the AVM, including:
A very bad headache.
Weakness, numbness or paralysis.
Vision loss.
Trouble speaking.
Confusion or not being able to understand others.
Trouble with walking.
Symptoms of a brain AVM may begin at any age but usually appear between ages 10 and 40. Brain AVMs can damage brain tissue over time. The effects slowly build and often cause symptoms in early adulthood.
By middle age, however, brain AVMs tend to remain stable and are less likely to cause symptoms.
Causes for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation) :
The cause of brain arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) is not known. Researchers believe most brain AVMs are present at birth and form during a baby's growth in the womb. But brain AVMs can happen later in life as well.
Brain AVMs are seen in some people who have hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT). HHT also is known as Osler-Weber-Rendu syndrome. HHT affects the way blood vessels form in several areas of the body, including the brain.
Typically, the heart sends oxygen-rich blood to the brain through arteries. The arteries slow blood flow by passing the blood through a series of smaller and smaller blood vessels. The smallest blood vessels are called capillaries. The capillaries slowly deliver oxygen through their thin, porous walls to the surrounding brain tissue.
The oxygen-depleted blood passes into small blood vessels and then into larger veins. The veins return the blood to the heart and lungs to get more oxygen.
The arteries and veins in an AVM lack this supporting network of smaller blood vessels and capillaries. Instead, blood flows quickly and directly from the arteries to the veins. When this happens, surrounding brain tissue doesn't receive the oxygen it needs.
Risk Factors for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation):
Anyone can be born with a brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM), but these factors may raise the risk:
Being male. Brain AVMs are more common in men.
Having a family history. Rarely, brain AVMs occur in families, but it's not clear if there's a certain genetic risk factor. It's also possible to inherit other medical conditions that increase the risk of brain AVMs, such as hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT).
Complications for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation):
Complications of a brain arteriovenous malformation (AVM) include:
Bleeding in the brain. A brain AVM puts extreme pressure on the walls of the affected arteries and veins. The pressure causes the arteries and veins to become thin or weak. This may result in the AVM breaking open and bleeding into the brain, known as a hemorrhage.
This risk of a brain AVM bleeding ranges from around 2% to 3% each year. The risk of bleeding may be higher for certain types of AVM. Risk also may be higher in people who have had a brain AVM bleed in the past.
Although studies haven't found that pregnancy increases the risk of hemorrhage in people with a brain AVM, more research is needed.
Some hemorrhages associated with brain AVMs aren't detected because they cause no major symptoms. However, potentially dangerous bleeding can occur.
Brain AVMs account for about 2% of all hemorrhagic strokes each year. In children and young adults who experience brain hemorrhage, brain AVMs are often the cause.
Reduced oxygen to brain tissue. With a brain AVM, blood doesn't flow through the network of small blood vessels called capillaries. Instead, it flows directly from arteries to veins. Blood rushes quickly because it isn't slowed by the smaller blood vessels.
Surrounding brain tissue can't easily absorb oxygen from the fast-flowing blood. Without enough oxygen, brain tissues weaken or may die off completely. This results in stroke-like symptoms, such as trouble speaking, weakness, numbness, vision loss or trouble staying steady.
Thin or weak blood vessels. An AVM puts extreme pressure on the thin and weak walls of the blood vessels. A bulge in a blood vessel wall, known as an aneurysm, may form. The aneurysm may be at risk of bursting.
Brain damage. The body may use more arteries to supply blood to the fast-flowing brain AVM. As a result, some AVMs may get bigger and displace or compress portions of the brain. This may prevent protective fluids from flowing freely around the brain.
If fluid builds up, it can push brain tissue against the skull.
One type of brain AVM that involves a major blood vessel called the vein of Galen causes serious complications in babies. Symptoms are present at birth or appear soon after birth. This type of brain AVM causes fluid to build up in the brain and the head to swell. Swollen veins may be seen on the scalp, and seizures may occur. Children with this type of brain AVM can have a failure to thrive and congestive heart failure.
There are no preventive measures available for Brain AVM (arteriovenous malformation) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Brain metastases
Overview of Brain metastases:
Brain metastases occur when cancer cells spread from their original site to the brain. Any cancer can spread to the brain, but the types most likely to cause brain metastases are lung, breast, colon, kidney and melanoma.
Brain metastases may form one tumor or many tumors in the brain. As the metastatic brain tumors grow, they create pressure on and change the function of surrounding brain tissue. This causes signs and symptoms, such as headache, personality changes, memory loss and seizures.
Treatment for people whose cancer has spread to the brain may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, immunotherapy or a combination of treatments. Other treatments might be recommended in certain situations. Treatment is often focused on reducing pain and symptoms resulting from the cancer.
There are no home remedies available for Brain metastases in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Brain metastases :
Signs and symptoms caused by brain metastases can vary based on the location, size and rate of growth of the metastatic tumors.
Signs and symptoms of brain metastases include:
Headache, sometimes with vomiting or nausea
Mental changes, such as increasing memory problems
Seizures
Weakness or numbness on one side of the body
Causes for Brain metastases :
Brain metastases occur when cancer cells break away from their original location. The cells may travel through the bloodstream or the lymph system and spread (metastasize) to the brain where they begin to multiply.
Metastatic cancer that spreads from its original location is known by the name of the primary cancer. For example, cancer that has spread from the breast to the brain is called metastatic breast cancer, not brain cancer.
Risk Factors for Brain metastases:
Any type of cancer can spread to the brain, but some types of cancer are more likely to cause brain metastases, including:
Lung cancer
Breast cancer
Colon cancer
Kidney cancer
Melanoma
There are no Complications available for Brain metastases in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Brain metastases in the knowledge baseCondition name:Brain tumor
Overview of Brain tumor:
A brain tumor is a growth of cells in the brain or near it. Brain tumors can happen in the brain tissue. Brain tumors also can happen near the brain tissue. Nearby locations include nerves, the pituitary gland, the pineal gland, and the membranes that cover the surface of the brain.
Brain tumors can begin in the brain. These are called primary brain tumors. Sometimes, cancer spreads to the brain from other parts of the body. These tumors are secondary brain tumors, also called metastatic brain tumors.
Many different types of primary brain tumors exist. Some brain tumors aren't cancerous. These are called noncancerous brain tumors or benign brain tumors. Noncancerous brain tumors may grow over time and press on the brain tissue. Other brain tumors are brain cancers, also called malignant brain tumors. Brain cancers may grow quickly. The cancer cells can invade and destroy the brain tissue.
Brain tumors range in size from very small to very large. Some brain tumors are found when they are very small because they cause symptoms that you notice right away. Other brain tumors grow very large before they're found. Some parts of the brain are less active than others. If a brain tumor starts in a part of the brain that's less active, it might not cause symptoms right away. The brain tumor size could become quite large before the tumor is detected.
Brain tumor treatment options depend on the type of brain tumor you have, as well as its size and location. Common treatments include surgery and radiation therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Brain tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Brain tumor :
The signs and symptoms of a brain tumor depend on the brain tumor's size and location. Symptoms also might depend on how fast the brain tumor is growing, which is also called the tumor grade.
General signs and symptoms caused by brain tumors may include:
Headache or pressure in the head that is worse in the morning.
Headaches that happen more often and seem more severe.
Headaches that are sometimes described as tension headaches or migraines.
Nausea or vomiting.
Eye problems, such as blurry vision, seeing double or losing sight on the sides of your vision.
Losing feeling or movement in an arm or a leg.
Trouble with balance.
Speech problems.
Feeling very tired.
Confusion in everyday matters.
Memory problems.
Having trouble following simple commands.
Personality or behavior changes.
Seizures, especially if there is no history of seizures.
Hearing problems.
Dizziness or a sense that the world is spinning, also called vertigo.
Feeling very hungry and gaining weight.
Brain tumors that aren't cancerous tend to cause symptoms that develop slowly. Noncancerous brain tumors also are called benign brain tumors. They might cause subtle symptoms that you don't notice at first. The symptoms might get worse over months or years.
Cancerous brain tumors cause symptoms that get worse quickly. Cancerous brain tumors also are called brain cancers or malignant brain tumors. They cause symptoms that come on suddenly. They get worse in a matter of days or weeks.
There are no Causes available for Brain tumor in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Brain tumor:
In most people with primary brain tumors, the cause isn't clear. But doctors have identified some factors that may raise the risk.
Risk factors include:
Age. Brain tumors can happen at any age, but they happen most often in older adults. Some brain tumors mostly affect adults. Some brain tumors happen most often in children.
Race. Anyone can get a brain tumor. But some types of brain tumors are more common in people of certain races. For example, gliomas are more common in white people. Meningiomas are more common in Black people.
Exposure to radiation. People who have been exposed to a strong type of radiation have an increased risk of brain tumor. This strong radiation is called ionizing radiation. The radiation is strong enough to cause DNA changes in the body's cells. The DNA changes can lead to tumors and cancers. Examples of ionizing radiation include radiation therapy used to treat cancer and radiation exposure caused by atomic bombs.
Low-level radiation from everyday objects isn't linked to brain tumors. Low levels of radiation include the energy that comes from cellphones and radio waves. There is no convincing evidence that using cellphones causes brain tumors. But more studies are happening to make sure.
Inherited syndromes that increase the risk of brain tumor. Some DNA changes that increase the risk of brain tumor run in families. Examples include the DNA changes that cause neurofibromatosis 1 and 2, tuberous sclerosis, Lynch syndrome, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Von Hippel-Lindau disease, familial adenomatous polyposis, Cowden syndrome, and Gorlin syndrome.
There are no Complications available for Brain tumor in the knowledge basePreventions for Brain tumor
There's no way to prevent brain tumors. If you get a brain tumor, you didn't do anything to cause it.
People with an increased risk of brain tumor might consider screening tests. Screening isn't brain tumor prevention. But screening might help find a brain tumor when it's small and treatment is more likely to be successful.
If you have a family history of brain tumor or inherited syndromes that increase the risk of brain tumor, talk about it with your health care provider. You might consider meeting with a genetic counselor or other health care provider trained in genetics. This person can help you understand your risk and ways to manage it. For example, you might consider brain tumor screening tests. Testing might include an imaging test or a neurological exam to test your vision, hearing, balance, coordination and reflexes.
Condition name:Breast cancer
Overview of Breast cancer:
Breast cancer is a kind of cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the breast tissue.
After skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women in the United States. But breast cancer doesn't just happen in women. Everyone is born with some breast tissue, so anyone can get breast cancer.
Breast cancer survival rates have been increasing. And the number of people dying of breast cancer is steadily going down. Much of this is due to the widespread support for breast cancer awareness and funding for research.
Advances in breast cancer screening allow healthcare professionals to diagnose breast cancer earlier. Finding the cancer earlier makes it much more likely that the cancer can be cured. Even when breast cancer can't be cured, many treatments exist to extend life. New discoveries in breast cancer research are helping healthcare professionals choose the most effective treatment plans.
There are no home remedies available for Breast cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Breast cancer :
Signs and symptoms of breast cancer may include:
A breast lump or thickened area of skin that feels different from the surrounding tissue.
A nipple that looks flattened or turns inward.
Changes in the color of the breast skin. In people with white skin, the breast skin may look pink or red. In people with brown and Black skin, the breast skin may look darker than the other skin on the chest or it may look red or purple.
Change in the size, shape or appearance of a breast.
Changes to the skin over the breast, such as skin that looks dimpled or looks like an orange peel.
Peeling, scaling, crusting or flaking of the skin on the breast.
Causes for Breast cancer :
The exact cause of most breast cancers isn't known. Researchers have found things that increase the risk of breast cancer. These include hormones, lifestyle choices and things in the environment. But it's not clear why some people who don't have any factors get cancer, yet others with risk factors never do. It's likely that breast cancer happens through a complex interaction of your genetic makeup and the world around you.
Healthcare professionals know that breast cancer starts when something changes the DNA inside cells in the breast tissue. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
The DNA changes that lead to breast cancer most often happen in the cells that line the milk ducts. These ducts are tubes designed to carry milk to the nipple. Breast cancer that starts in the ducts is called invasive ductal carcinoma. Breast cancer also can start in cells in the milk glands. These glands, called lobules, are designed to make breast milk. Cancer that happens in the lobules is called invasive lobular carcinoma. Other cells in the breast can become cancer cells, though this isn't common.
Risk Factors for Breast cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of breast cancer include:
A family history of breast cancer. If a parent, sibling or child had breast cancer, your risk of breast cancer is increased. The risk is higher if your family has a history of getting breast cancer at a young age. The risk also is higher if you have multiple family members with breast cancer. Still, most people diagnosed with breast cancer don't have a family history of the disease.
A personal history of breast cancer. If you've had cancer in one breast, you have an increased risk of getting cancer in the other breast.
A personal history of breast conditions. Certain breast conditions are markers for a higher risk of breast cancer. These conditions include lobular carcinoma in situ, also called LCIS, and atypical hyperplasia of the breast. If you've had a breast biopsy that found one of these conditions, you have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Beginning your period at a younger age. Beginning your period before age 12 increases your risk of breast cancer.
Beginning menopause at an older age. Beginning menopause after age 55 increases the risk of breast cancer.
Being female. Women are much more likely than men are to get breast cancer. Everyone is born with some breast tissue, so anyone can get breast cancer.
Dense breast tissue. Breast tissue is made up of fatty tissue and dense tissue. Dense tissue is made of milk glands, milk ducts and fibrous tissue. If you have dense breasts, you have more dense tissue than fatty tissue in your breasts. Having dense breasts can make it harder to detect breast cancer on a mammogram. If a mammogram showed that you have dense breasts, your risk of breast cancer is increased. Talk with your healthcare team about other tests you might have in addition to mammograms to look for breast cancer.
Drinking alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer.
Having your first child at an older age. Giving birth to your first child after age 30 may increase the risk of breast cancer.
Having never been pregnant. Having been pregnant one or more times lowers the risk of breast cancer. Never having been pregnant increases the risk.
Increasing age. The risk of breast cancer goes up as you get older.
Inherited DNA changes that increase cancer risk. Certain DNA changes that increase the risk of breast cancer can be passed from parents to children. The most well-known changes are called BRCA1 and BRCA2. These changes can greatly increase your risk of breast cancer and other cancers, but not everyone with these DNA changes gets cancer.
Menopausal hormone therapy. Taking certain hormone therapy medicines to control the symptoms of menopause may increase the risk of breast cancer. The risk is linked to hormone therapy medicines that combine estrogen and progesterone. The risk goes down when you stop taking these medicines.
Obesity. People with obesity have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Radiation exposure. If you received radiation treatments to your chest as a child or young adult, your risk of breast cancer is higher.
There are no Complications available for Breast cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Breast cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Breast cysts
Overview of Breast cysts:
Breast cysts are fluid-filled sacs inside the breast. They are usually noncancerous (benign). You may have one or multiple breast cysts. A breast cyst often feels like a grape or a water-filled balloon, but sometimes a breast cyst feels firm.
Breast cysts don't require treatment unless a cyst is large and painful or uncomfortable. In that case, draining the fluid from a breast cyst can ease symptoms.
Although breast cysts can be found in women of any age, they're more common in women before menopause, typically under age 50. Breast cysts also commonly occur in postmenopausal women who take hormone therapy.
Home Remedies for Breast cysts:
To minimize discomfort associated with breast cysts, you might try these measures:
Wear a supportive bra. Supporting your breasts with a bra that fits well may help relieve some discomfort.
Apply a compress. Either a warm compress or an ice pack can help relieve pain.
Avoid caffeine. Studies haven't shown a link between caffeine and breast cysts. However, some women find symptom relief after eliminating caffeine from their diets. Consider reducing or eliminating caffeine â€” in beverages, as well as in foods such as chocolate â€” to see if your symptoms improve.
Consider trying over-the-counter pain medications if your doctor recommends them. Some types of breast pain may be eased by the use of acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, others).
Symptoms for Breast cysts :
Breast cysts may be found in one or both breasts. Signs and symptoms of a breast cyst include:
A smooth, easily movable round or oval lump that may have smooth edges — which typically, though not always, indicates it's benign
Nipple discharge that may be clear, yellow, straw colored or dark brown
Breast pain or tenderness in the area of the breast lump
An increase in breast lump size and breast tenderness just before your period
A decrease in breast lump size and resolution of other symptoms after your period
Having breast cysts doesn't increase your risk of breast cancer. But having cysts may make it harder to find new breast lumps or other changes that might need evaluation by your doctor. Your breasts may feel lumpy and painful when you're menstruating, so it's important to be familiar with how your breasts feel throughout your menstrual cycle so that you'll know if something changes.
Causes for Breast cysts :
Each of your breasts contains lobes of glandular tissue, arranged like petals of a daisy. The lobes are divided into smaller lobules that produce milk during pregnancy and breast-feeding. The supporting tissue that gives the breast its shape is made up of fatty tissue and fibrous connective tissue. Breast cysts develop as a result of fluid accumulation inside the glands in the breasts.
Breast cysts may be defined by their size:
Microcysts may be seen during imaging tests, such as mammography or ultrasound, but are too small to feel.
Macrocysts are large enough to be felt and can grow to about 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 centimeters) in diameter.
Experts don't know exactly what causes breast cysts. They may develop as a result of hormonal changes from monthly menstruation.
There are no Risk Factors available for Breast cysts in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Breast cysts in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Breast cysts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Breast pain
Overview of Breast pain:
Breast pain (mastalgia) can be described as tenderness, throbbing, sharp, stabbing, burning pain or tightness in the breast tissue. The pain may be constant or it may occur only occasionally, and it can occur in men, women and transgender people.
Breast pain can range from mild to severe. It may occur:
Just a few days a month, in the two to three days leading up to a menstrual period. This normal, mild-to-moderate pain affects both breasts.
A week or longer each month, starting before a period and sometimes continuing through the menstrual cycle. The pain may be moderate or severe, and affects both breasts.
Throughout the month, not related to a menstrual cycle.
In men, breast pain is most commonly caused by a condition called "gynecomastia" (guy-nuh-koh-MAS-tee-uh). This refers to an increase in the amount of breast gland tissue that's caused by an imbalance of the hormones estrogen and testosterone. Gynecomastia can affect one or both breasts, sometimes unevenly.
In transgender women, hormone therapy may cause breast pain. In transgender men, breast pain may be caused by the minimal amount of breast tissue that may remain after a mastectomy.
Most times, breast pain signals a noncancerous (benign) breast condition and rarely indicates breast cancer. Unexplained breast pain that doesn't go away after one or two menstrual cycles, or that persists after menopause, or breast pain that doesn't seem to be related to hormone changes needs to be evaluated.
There are no home remedies available for Breast pain in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Breast pain :
Breast pain can be cyclic or noncyclic. Cyclic means that the pain occurs on a regular pattern. Noncyclic means that the pain is constant, or that there's not a regular pattern. Each type of breast pain has distinct characteristics.
Causes for Breast pain :
Changing hormone levels can cause changes in the milk ducts or milk glands. These changes in the ducts and glands can cause breast cysts, which can be painful and are a common cause of cyclic breast pain. Noncyclic breast pain may be caused by trauma, prior breast surgery or other factors.
Sometimes, it's not possible to identify the exact cause of breast pain, but some factors may increase the risk.
Risk Factors for Breast pain:
Breast pain is more common among people who haven't completed menopause, although it may occur after menopause. Breast pain can also occur in men who have gynecomastia, and in transgender people who are undergoing gender reassignment.
Other factors that may increase the risk of breast pain include:
Breast size. People who have large breasts may experience noncyclic breast pain related to the size of their breasts. Neck, shoulder and back pain may accompany breast pain that's caused by large breasts.
Breast surgery. Breast pain associated with breast surgery and scar formation can sometimes linger after incisions have healed.
Fatty acid imbalance. An imbalance of fatty acids within the cells may affect the sensitivity of breast tissue to circulating hormones.
Medication use. Certain hormonal medications, including some infertility treatments and oral birth control pills, may be associated with breast pain. Breast tenderness is a possible side effect of estrogen and progesterone hormone therapies that are used after menopause. Breast pain may be associated with certain antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressants. Other medicines that can cause breast pain include those used to treat high blood pressure and some antibiotics.
Excessive caffeine use. Although more research is needed, some people notice an improvement in breast pain when they reduce or eliminate caffeine.
There are no Complications available for Breast pain in the knowledge basePreventions for Breast pain
The following steps may help prevent the causes of breast pain, although more research is needed to determine their effectiveness.
Avoid hormone therapy if possible.
Avoid medications that are known to cause breast pain or make it worse.
Wear a properly fitted bra, and wear a sports bra during exercise.
Try relaxation therapy, which can help control the high levels of anxiety associated with severe breast pain.
Limit or eliminate caffeine, a dietary change some people find helpful, although studies of caffeine's effect on breast pain and other premenstrual symptoms have been inconclusive.
Avoid excessive or prolonged lifting activities.
Follow a low-fat diet and eat more complex carbohydrates.
Consider using an over-the-counter pain reliever, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) — but ask your doctor how much to take, as long-term use may increase your risk of liver problems and other side effects.
Condition name:Broken arm
Overview of Broken arm:
A broken arm involves one or more of the three bones in your arm — the ulna, radius and humerus. One of the most common causes of a broken arm is falling onto an outstretched hand. If you think you or your child has broken an arm, seek prompt medical attention. It's important to treat a fracture as soon as possible for proper healing.
Treatment depends on the site and severity of the injury. A simple break might be treated with a sling, ice and rest. However, the bone may require realignment (reduction) in the emergency room.
A more complicated break might require surgery to realign the broken bone and to implant wires, plates, nails or screws to keep the bone in place during healing.
There are no home remedies available for Broken arm in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken arm :
A snap or cracking sound might be your first indication you've broken an arm. Signs and symptoms include:
Severe pain, which might increase with movement
Swelling
Bruising
Deformity, such as a bent arm or wrist
Inability to turn your arm from palm up to palm down or vice versa
Causes for Broken arm :
Common causes for a broken arm include:
Falls. Falling onto an outstretched hand or elbow is the most common cause of a broken arm.
Sports injuries. Direct blows and injuries on the field or court cause all types of arm fractures.
Significant trauma. Any of your arm bones can break during a car accident, bike accident or other direct trauma.
Child abuse. In children, a broken arm might be the result of child abuse.
Risk Factors for Broken arm:
Certain medical conditions or physical activities can increase the risk of a broken arm.
Complications for Broken arm:
The prognosis for most arm fractures is very good if treated early. But complications can include:
Uneven growth. Because a child's arm bones are still growing, a fracture in the area where growth occurs near each end of a long bone (growth plate) can interfere with that bone's growth.
Osteoarthritis. Fractures that extend into a joint can cause arthritis there years later.
Stiffness. The immobilization required to heal a fracture in the upper arm bone can sometimes result in painfully limited range of motion of the elbow or shoulder.
Bone infection. If a part of your broken bone protrudes through your skin, it can be exposed to germs that can cause infection. Prompt treatment of this type of fracture is critical.
Nerve or blood vessel injury. If the upper arm bone (humerus) fractures into two or more pieces, the jagged ends can injure nearby nerves and blood vessels. Seek immediate medical attention if you notice numbness or circulation problems.
Compartment syndrome. Excessive swelling of the injured arm can cut off the blood supply to part of the arm, causing pain and numbness. Typically occurring 24 to 48 hours after the injury, compartment syndrome is a medical emergency that requires surgery.
Preventions for Broken arm
Although it's impossible to prevent an accident, these tips might offer some protection against bone breakage.
Eat for bone strength. Eat a healthy diet that includes calcium-rich foods, such as milk, yogurt and cheese, and vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium. You can get vitamin D from fatty fish, such as salmon; from fortified foods, such as milk and orange juice; and from sun exposure.
Exercise for bone strength. Weight-bearing physical activity and exercises that improve balance and posture can strengthen bones and reduce the chance of a fracture. The more active and fit you are as you age, the less likely you are to fall and break a bone.
Prevent falls. To prevent falling, wear sensible shoes. Remove home hazards that can cause you to trip, such as area rugs. Make sure your living space is well lit. Install grab bars in your bathroom and handrails on your stairways, if necessary.
Use protective gear. Wear wrist guards for high-risk activities, such as in-line skating, snowboarding, rugby and football.
Don't smoke. Smoking can increase your risk of a broken arm by reducing bone mass. It also hampers healing of fractures.
Condition name:Broken collarbone
Overview of Broken collarbone:
A broken collarbone is a common injury. The collarbone, also known as the clavicle, connects the shoulder blade to the breastbone. Common causes of a broken collarbone include falls, sports and traffic accidents. Infants sometimes break their collarbones while being born.
Seek medical help quickly for a broken collarbone. Most heal well with ice, pain relievers, a sling, physical therapy and time. Some breaks might require surgery to put plates, screws or rods into the bone to hold the pieces in place during healing.
Home Remedies for Broken collarbone:
Applying ice to the area for 20 to 30 minutes every few hours during the first 2 to 3 days after a collarbone break can help control pain and swelling.
Symptoms for Broken collarbone :
Symptoms of a broken collarbone include:
Pain that increases when moving the shoulder.
Swelling, tenderness or bruising.
Skin over the break might look like a tent when gently pinched.
A bump on or near the shoulder.
A grinding or crackling sound when moving the shoulder.
Stiffness or not being able to move the shoulder.
Newborns often will not move their arm for days after breaking the collarbone during birth and will cry if someone moves the arm.
Causes for Broken collarbone :
Common causes of a broken collarbone include:
Falls, such as falling onto the shoulder or onto an outstretched arm.
Sports injuries, such as a direct blow to the shoulder on the field, rink or court.
Traffic accidents, from a car, motorcycle or bike crash.
Birth injury, usually from a difficult vaginal birth.
Risk Factors for Broken collarbone:
Teenagers and children are at higher risk of a broken collarbone than are adults. The risk goes down after age 20. Then it rises again in older people as they lose bone strength with age.
Complications for Broken collarbone:
Most broken collarbones heal without difficulty. Complications, when they occur, might include:
Nerve or blood vessel injury. Rarely, the jagged ends of a broken collarbone may injure nearby nerves and blood vessels. Seek immediate medical attention for numbness or coldness in an arm or hand.
Poor or slow healing. A badly broken collarbone might heal slowly or not all the way. Poor joining of the bones during healing can shorten the bone.
A lump in the bone. As part of the healing process, the place where the bone knits together forms a bony lump. The lump is easy to see because it's close to the skin. Most lumps disappear over time, but not all.
Osteoarthritis. A fracture that involves the joints that connect the collarbone to the shoulder blade or the breastbone might increase the risk of later developing arthritis in that joint.
There are no preventive measures available for Broken collarbone in the knowledge baseCondition name:Broken foot
Overview of Broken foot:
A broken foot, also called a fractured foot, is an injury to one or more bones in the foot. A bone might break from a sports injury, a car crash, a heavy object dropped on the foot, or a misstep or fall.
Fractures can range from tiny cracks in the bones to breaks in more than one bone and breaks that come through the skin.
Treatment for a broken foot bone depends on where the bone breaks and how bad the break is. A badly broken foot bone may need surgery to put plates, rods or screws into the broken bone pieces to hold them in place while they heal.
There are no home remedies available for Broken foot in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken foot :
A broken foot bone might cause some of these symptoms:
Instant throbbing pain.
Pain that gets worse with activity and gets better with rest.
Swelling.
Bruising.
Tenderness.
Change in the typical shape of the foot, called deformity.
Trouble or pain with walking or putting weight on the foot.
Bone sticking through the skin, called an open fracture.
Causes for Broken foot :
The most common causes of a broken foot include:
Car accidents. The crushing injuries that can happen in car accidents may cause breaks that need surgery to be fixed.
Falls. Tripping and falling can break bones in the feet. So can landing on the feet after jumping down from a height.
Impact from a heavy weight. Dropping something heavy on the foot is a common cause of fractures.
Missteps. Sometimes a stumble can result in a twisting injury that can cause a broken bone. A toe can break from stubbing it on furniture.
Overuse. Stress fractures are common in the weight-bearing bones of the feet. Repeated force or overuse over time, such as running long distances, most often is the cause of these tiny cracks. But they also can happen with regular use of a bone that's been weakened by a condition such as osteoporosis.
Risk Factors for Broken foot:
You may be at higher risk of a broken foot or ankle if you:
Play high-impact sports. The stresses, direct blows and twisting injuries that happen in sports such as basketball, football, gymnastics, tennis and soccer can cause foot bone breaks.
Use poor technique or sports equipment. Poor training techniques, such as not warming up, can raise the risk of foot injuries. Bad equipment, such as shoes that are too worn or don't fit right, also can increase the risk of stress fractures and falls.
Suddenly increase your activity level. Whether you're a trained athlete or someone who's just started exercising, suddenly boosting how long, hard or often you exercise can increase your risk of a stress fracture.
Work in certain jobs. Certain workplaces, such as construction sites, put you at risk of falling from a height or dropping something heavy on your foot.
Keep your home cluttered or poorly lit. Walking around in a house with too much clutter or too little light may lead to falls and foot injuries.
Have certain conditions. Having decreased bone density, called osteoporosis, can put you at risk of injuries to your foot bones.
Smoking. Cigarette smoking can increase the risk of getting osteoporosis. Studies also show that healing after a break may take longer in people who smoke.
Complications for Broken foot:
Complications of a broken foot bone aren't common but may include:
Arthritis. Fractures that extend into a joint can cause arthritis years later. If your foot starts to hurt long after a break, see your healthcare professional.
Bone infection, called osteomyelitis. If you have an open fracture in which one end of the bone pokes through the skin, your bone may be exposed to bacteria that cause infection.
Nerve or blood vessel damage. Trauma to the foot can injure or tear nerves and blood vessels. Seek medical help right away if you notice numbness or feel like your foot isn't getting enough blood. Lack of blood flow can cause a bone to die, called avascular necrosis.
Compartment syndrome. This condition rarely occurs with foot fractures. It causes pain, swelling, numbness and sometimes being unable to use the affected muscles of the foot.
Preventions for Broken foot
These sports and safety tips may help prevent a broken foot bone:
Wear proper shoes. Use hiking shoes on rough terrain. Choose the right athletic shoes for your sport.
Replace athletic shoes when needed. Get rid of shoes as soon as the tread or heel wears out or if the wear on the shoes isn't even. If you're a runner, replace your shoes every 300 to 400 miles.
Start slowly. That applies to a new fitness program and to every workout you do.
Have a balanced fitness program. A balanced fitness program includes aerobic fitness to work your heart, strength training to build muscles and movements that put your joints through their full range of motion, called flexibility.
Build bone strength. Get enough calcium and vitamin D. Calcium-rich foods include dairy products, leafy greens and tofu. Ask your healthcare professional if you need to take vitamin D supplements.
Use night lights. Many broken toes are the result of walking in the dark.
Get rid of clutter in your home. Keeping clutter off the floor can help you not trip and fall.
Condition name:Broken heart syndrome
Overview of Broken heart syndrome:
Broken heart syndrome is a heart condition that's often brought on by stressful situations and extreme emotions. The condition also can be triggered by a serious physical illness or surgery. Broken heart syndrome is usually temporary. But some people may continue to feel unwell after the heart is healed.
People with broken heart syndrome may have sudden chest pain or think they're having a heart attack. Broken heart syndrome affects just part of the heart. It briefly interrupts the way the heart pumps blood. The rest of the heart continues to work as usual. Sometimes the heart contracts more forcefully.
Medicines are used to treat symptoms of broken heart syndrome.
Broken heart syndrome also may be called:
Stress cardiomyopathy.
Takotsubo cardiomyopathy.
Recurrent takotsubo cardiomyopathy.
Apical ballooning syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for Broken heart syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken heart syndrome :
Symptoms of broken heart syndrome can mimic those of a heart attack. Symptoms may include:
Chest pain.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Broken heart syndrome :
The exact cause of broken heart syndrome is unclear. It's thought that a surge of stress hormones, such as adrenaline, might damage the hearts of some people for a short time. How these hormones might hurt the heart or whether something else is the cause isn't completely clear.
A temporary squeezing of the large or small arteries of the heart may play a role in the development of broken heart syndrome. People who have broken heart syndrome also may have a change in the structure of the heart muscle.
An intense physical or emotional event often comes before broken heart syndrome. Anything that causes a strong emotional reaction may trigger the condition. Examples include:
Sudden illness such as an asthma attack or COVID-19.
Major surgery.
Sudden broken bone.
Death of a loved one or other loss.
Strong argument.
Rarely, use of certain medicines or illegal drugs may lead to broken heart syndrome. They include:
Emergency medicines used to treat severe allergic reactions or severe asthma attacks.
Some medicines used to treat anxiety.
Medicines used to treat a stuffy nose.
Illegal stimulant drugs, such as methamphetamine and cocaine.
Always tell your healthcare team about the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription. When starting a new medicine, talk to your care team about the potential risks and side effects.
Risk Factors for Broken heart syndrome:
Risk factors for broken heart syndrome include:
Sex. Broken heart syndrome is more common in women than in men.
Age. Most people who have broken heart syndrome are older than 50.
Mental health conditions. People who have had or have anxiety or depression may have a higher risk of broken heart syndrome.
Complications for Broken heart syndrome:
Most people who have broken heart syndrome quickly recover and usually don't have long-lasting effects. But sometimes the condition comes back. This is called recurrent takotsubo cardiomyopathy.
Rarely, broken heart syndrome can cause death.
Complications of broken heart syndrome include:
Backup of fluid into the lungs, called pulmonary edema.
Low blood pressure.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Heart failure.
Blood clots in the heart.
Preventions for Broken heart syndrome
To prevent another episode of broken heart syndrome, many healthcare professionals recommend long-term treatment with beta blockers or similar medicines. These medicines block the potentially harmful effects of stress hormones on the heart.
Having chronic stress may increase the risk of broken heart syndrome. Taking steps to manage emotional stress can improve heart health and may help prevent broken heart syndrome. Some ways to reduce and manage stress include:
Get more exercise.
Practice mindfulness.
Connect with others in support groups.
Condition name:Broken leg
Overview of Broken leg:
A broken leg (leg fracture) is a break or crack in one of the bones in your leg. Common causes include falls, motor vehicle accidents and sports injuries.
Treatment of a broken leg depends on the location and severity of the injury. A severely broken leg may require metal pins and plates to hold the fragments together. Less severe breaks may be treated with a cast or splint. In all cases, prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical to complete healing.
There are no home remedies available for Broken leg in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken leg :
The thighbone (femur) is the strongest bone in the body. It is usually obvious when the thighbone is broken because it takes so much force to break. But a break in the shinbone (tibia) or in the bone that runs alongside the shinbone (fibula) may be less obvious.
Signs and symptoms of a broken leg may include:
Severe pain, which may worsen with movement
Swelling
Tenderness
Bruising
Obvious deformity or shortening of the affected leg
Inability to walk
Toddlers or young children who break a leg may start limping or simply stop walking, even if they can't explain why.
Causes for Broken leg :
A broken leg can be caused by:
Falls. A simple fall can fracture one or both lower leg bones. A much higher impact is usually needed to break the thighbone.
Motor vehicle accidents. All three leg bones can break during a motor vehicle accident. Fractures can occur when your knees become jammed against the dashboard during a collision or with damage to the car hitting your legs.
Sports injuries. Extending your leg beyond its natural limits during contact sports can cause a broken leg. So can a fall or a direct blow — such as from a hockey stick or an opponent's body.
Child abuse. In children, a broken leg may be the result of child abuse, especially when such an injury occurs before the child can walk.
Overuse. Stress fractures are tiny cracks that develop in the weight-bearing bones of the body, including the shinbone. Stress fractures are usually caused by repetitive force or overuse, such as running long distances. But they can occur with regular use of a bone that's been weakened by a condition such as osteoporosis.
Risk Factors for Broken leg:
Stress fractures are often the result of repetitive stress to the leg bones from physical activities, such as:
Running
Ballet dancing
Basketball
Marching
Contact sports, such as hockey and football, also may pose a risk of direct blows to the leg, which can result in a fracture.
Stress fractures outside of sport situations are more common in people who have:
Decreased bone density (osteoporosis)
Diabetes
Rheumatoid arthritis
Complications for Broken leg:
Complications of a broken leg may include:
Knee or ankle pain. A broken bone in your leg may produce pain in your knee or ankle.
Bone infection (osteomyelitis). If a broken bone cuts through the skin and causes a wound, it is called an open fracture. If you have an open fracture, the bone may be exposed to germs that can cause infection.
Poor or delayed healing. A severe leg fracture may not heal quickly or completely. This is particularly common in an open fracture of the tibia because of lower blood flow to this bone.
Nerve or blood vessel damage. Leg fractures can injure nearby nerves and blood vessels. Seek immediate medical help if you notice any numbness, pale skin or circulation problems.
Compartment syndrome. This condition causes pain, swelling and sometimes disability in muscles near the broken bone. This is a rare complication that is more common with high-impact injuries, such as a car or motorcycle accident.
Arthritis. Fractures that extend into the joint and poor bone alignment can cause osteoarthritis years later. If your leg starts to hurt long after a break, see your health care provider for an evaluation.
Unequal leg length. The long bones of a child grow from the ends of the bones, in softer areas called growth plates. If a fracture goes through a growth plate, that limb might eventually become shorter or longer than the opposite limb.
Preventions for Broken leg
A broken leg can't always be prevented. But these basic tips may reduce your risk:
Build bone strength. Calcium-rich foods, such as milk, yogurt and cheese, can help build strong bones. A calcium or vitamin D supplement also may improve bone strength. Ask your health care provider if these supplements are right for you.
Wear proper athletic shoes. Choose the appropriate shoe for your favorite sports or activities. And replace athletic shoes regularly. Discard sneakers as soon as the tread or heel wears out or if the shoes are wearing unevenly.
Cross-train. Alternating activities can prevent stress fractures. Rotate running with swimming or biking. If you run on a sloped track indoors, alternate the direction of your running to even out the stress on your skeleton.
Condition name:Broken ribs
Overview of Broken ribs:
A broken rib is a common injury that occurs when one of the bones in the rib cage breaks or cracks. The most common causes are hard impacts from falls, car accidents or contact sports.
Many broken ribs are simply cracked. Cracked ribs are painful. But they don't cause the problems that ribs that have broken into pieces can. The sharp edge of a broken bone can harm major blood vessels or lungs and other organs.
Usually, broken ribs heal on their own in about six weeks. Pain control is important for being able to breathe deeply and avoid lung issues, such as pneumonia.
There are no home remedies available for Broken ribs in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken ribs :
The following can cause pain with a broken rib or make pain worse:
A deep breath.
Pressure on the injured area.
A bend or a twist of the body.
Causes for Broken ribs :
Direct impact — such as from a car accident, a fall, child abuse or contact sports — is the most common cause of broken ribs. Ribs also can be broken by repeated impact from sports such as golf and rowing or from coughing hard and long.
Risk Factors for Broken ribs:
The following can increase the risk of breaking a rib:
Osteoporosis. This disease in which bones lose their bulk increases the risk of breaking a bone.
Sports. Playing contact sports, such as hockey or football, increases the risk of injury to the chest.
Cancer in a rib. Cancer can weaken the bone, making it more likely to break.
Complications for Broken ribs:
A broken rib can harm blood vessels and internal organs. Having more than one broken rib increases the risk.
Complications depend on which ribs break. Possible complications include:
Tear in the main artery of the body, known as the aorta. A sharp end from a break in one of the first three ribs at the top of the rib cage could pierce a major blood vessel, including the aorta.
Tear in a lung. The jagged end of a broken middle rib can punch a hole in a lung and cause it to cave in.
Ripped spleen, liver or kidneys. The bottom two ribs rarely break because they can move more than the upper and middle ribs. But the ends of a broken lower rib can cause serious harm to the spleen, liver or a kidney.
Preventions for Broken ribs
To help keep a rib from breaking:
Protect from athletic injuries. Wear protective equipment when playing contact sports.
Reduce the risk of falls in the house. Remove clutter from floors. Wipe up spills right away. Use a rubber mat in the shower. Keep your home well lit. Put backing on carpets and area rugs to keep them from sliding.
Strengthen bones. Getting enough calcium and vitamin D in the diet is important for strong bones. Get about 1,200 milligrams of calcium and 600 international units of vitamin D daily from food and supplements.
Condition name:Broken toe
Overview of Broken toe:
A broken toe is a common injury that's most often caused by dropping something on a foot or stubbing a toe.
Usually, treating a broken toe involves taping it to the next toe. But if the fracture is severe — especially if it's in the big toe — proper healing might require a cast or even surgery to heal well.
Most broken toes heal well, usually within 4 to 6 weeks. Sometimes, however, a broken toe can get infected. Also, the break might increase the risk of getting osteoarthritis in that toe in the future.
Home Remedies for Broken toe:
Raising the foot and using ice can help reduce swelling and pain. Prop your foot up when possible so that your injury is higher than your heart. If you use ice, wrap it in a towel so that it doesn't touch your skin. Use it for about 15 minutes at a time, taking a break of at least 20 minutes before icing again.
Symptoms for Broken toe :
Signs and symptoms of a broken toe include:
Pain
Swelling
Change in skin color from bruising or bleeding under the skin
Causes for Broken toe :
Dropping something heavy on a foot and stubbing the toe against something hard are the most common causes of a broken toe.
There are no Risk Factors available for Broken toe in the knowledge baseComplications for Broken toe:
Complications may include:
Infection. If the skin is cut near the injured toe, the risk of getting an infection in the bone increases.
Osteoarthritis. This wear-and-tear type of arthritis is more likely to occur when the break affects one of the toe joints.
There are no preventive measures available for Broken toe in the knowledge baseCondition name:Broken wrist
Overview of Broken wrist:
A broken wrist is a break or crack in one or more of the bones of your wrist. The most common of these injuries occurs in the wrist when people try to catch themselves during a fall and land hard on an outstretched hand.
You may be at higher risk of a broken wrist if you participate in sports like in-line skating or snowboarding, or if you have a condition in which bones become thinner and more fragile (osteoporosis).
It's important to treat a broken wrist as soon as possible. Otherwise, the bones might not heal in proper alignment, which might affect your ability to do everyday activities, such as writing or buttoning a shirt. Early treatment will also help minimize pain and stiffness.
There are no home remedies available for Broken wrist in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Broken wrist :
A broken wrist might cause these signs and symptoms:
Severe pain that might worsen when gripping or squeezing or moving your hand or wrist
Swelling
Tenderness
Bruising
Obvious deformity, such as a bent wrist
Causes for Broken wrist :
A broken wrist can be caused by:
Falls. Falling onto an outstretched hand is one of the most common causes of a broken wrist.
Sports injuries. Many wrist fractures occur during contact sports or sports in which you might fall onto an outstretched hand — such as in-line skating or snowboarding.
Motor vehicle crashes. Motor vehicle crashes can cause wrist bones to break, sometimes into many pieces, and often require surgical repair.
Risk Factors for Broken wrist:
Participating in certain sports activities and having the bone-thinning disease osteoporosis can increase your chances of breaking a wrist.
Complications for Broken wrist:
Complications of a broken wrist are rare, but they might include:
Ongoing stiffness, aching or disability. Stiffness, pain or aching in the affected area generally goes away eventually after your cast is removed or after surgery. However, some people have permanent stiffness or pain. Be patient with your recovery, and talk to your doctor about exercises that might help or for a referral to physical or occupational therapy.
Osteoarthritis. Fractures that extend into a joint can cause arthritis years later. If your wrist starts to hurt or swell long after a break, see your doctor for an evaluation.
Nerve or blood vessel damage. Trauma to the wrist can injure adjacent nerves and blood vessels. Seek immediate attention if you have numbness or circulation problems.
Preventions for Broken wrist
It's impossible to prevent the unforeseen events that often cause a broken wrist. But these tips might offer some protection.
Condition name:Bronchiolitis
Overview of Bronchiolitis:
Bronchiolitis is a common lung infection in young children and infants. It causes swelling and irritation and a buildup of mucus in the small airways of the lung. These small airways are called bronchioles. Bronchiolitis is almost always caused by a virus.
Bronchiolitis starts out with symptoms much like a common cold. But then it gets worse, causing coughing and a high-pitched whistling sound when breathing out called wheezing. Sometimes children have trouble breathing. Symptoms of bronchiolitis can last for 1 to 2 weeks but occasionally can last longer.
Most children get better with care at home. A small number of children need a stay in the hospital.
Home Remedies for Bronchiolitis:
Though it may not be possible to shorten the length of your child's illness, you may be able to make your child more comfortable. Here are some tips:
Humidify the air. If the air in your child's room is dry, a cool-mist humidifier or vaporizer can moisten the air. This may help loosen mucus and lessen coughing. Be sure to keep the humidifier clean so that bacteria and molds don't grow in the machine.
Give your child liquids to stay hydrated. Infants should have formula or breast milk only. Your child's health care provider may add oral rehydration therapy. Older kids can drink whatever they want, such as water, juice or milk, as long as they're drinking. Your child may drink more slowly than usual because of swelling and mucus in the nose. Offer small amounts of liquid often.
Try saline nose drops to ease stuffiness. You can buy these drops without a prescription. They are effective, safe and won't irritate the nose, even for children. Put several drops into the opening on one side of the nose, called the nostril, then bulb suction that nostril right away. Be careful not to push the bulb too far into the nose. Repeat the same steps in the other nostril.
Consider pain relievers that you can buy without a prescription. For treatment of fever or pain, ask your child's health care provider about giving your child infants' or children's over-the-counter fever and pain medicines such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others). Those are safer than aspirin. Aspirin is not recommended in children due to the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially life-threatening condition. Children and teenagers recovering from chickenpox or flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin, as they have a higher risk of Reye's syndrome.
Avoid secondhand smoke. Smoke can worsen symptoms of respiratory infections. If a family member smokes, ask them to smoke outside of the house and outside of the car.
Don't use other over-the-counter medicines, except for fever reducers and pain relievers, to treat coughs and colds in children under 6 years old. Also, consider avoiding the use of these medicines for children younger than 12 years old. The risks to children outweigh the benefits.
Symptoms for Bronchiolitis :
For the first few days, the symptoms of bronchiolitis are much like a cold:
Runny nose.
Stuffy nose.
Cough.
Sometimes a slight fever.
Later, your child may have a week or more of working harder than usual to breathe, which may include wheezing.
Many infants with bronchiolitis also have an ear infection called otitis media.
Causes for Bronchiolitis :
Bronchiolitis happens when a virus infects the bronchioles, which are the smallest airways in the lungs. The infection makes the bronchioles swollen and irritated. Mucus collects in these airways, which makes it difficult for air to flow freely in and out of the lungs.
Bronchiolitis is usually caused by the respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). RSV is a common virus that infects just about every child by 2 years of age. Outbreaks of RSV infection often happen during the colder months of the year in some locations or the rainy season in others. A person can get it more than once. Bronchiolitis also can be caused by other viruses, including those that cause the flu or the common cold.
The viruses that cause bronchiolitis are easily spread. You can get them through droplets in the air when someone who is sick coughs, sneezes or talks. You also can get them by touching shared items — such as dishes, doorknobs, towels or toys — and then touching your eyes, nose or mouth.
Risk Factors for Bronchiolitis:
Bronchiolitis usually affects children under the age of 2 years. Infants younger than 3 months have the highest risk of getting bronchiolitis because their lungs and their ability to fight infections aren't yet fully developed. Rarely, adults can get bronchiolitis.
Other factors that increase the risk of bronchiolitis in infants and young children include:
Being born too early.
Having a heart or lung condition.
Having a weakened immune system. This makes it hard to fight infections.
Being around tobacco smoke.
Contact with lots of other children, such as in a child care setting.
Spending time in crowded places.
Having siblings who go to school or get child care services and bring home the infection.
Complications for Bronchiolitis:
Complications of severe bronchiolitis may include:
Low oxygen in the body.
Pauses in breathing, which is most likely to happen in babies born too early and in babies under 2 months old.
Not being able to drink enough liquids. This can cause dehydration, when too much body fluid is lost.
Not being able to get the amount of oxygen needed. This is called respiratory failure.
If any of these happen, your child may need to be in the hospital. Severe respiratory failure may require that a tube be guided into the windpipe. This helps your child breathe until the infection improves.
Preventions for Bronchiolitis
Because the viruses that cause bronchiolitis spread from person to person, one of the best ways to prevent infection is to wash your hands often. This is especially important before touching your baby when you have a cold, flu or other illness that can be spread. If you have any of these illnesses, wear a face mask.
If your child has bronchiolitis, keep your child at home until the illness is past to avoid spreading it to others.
To help prevent infection:
Limit contact with people who have a fever or cold. If your child is a newborn, especially a premature newborn, avoid being around people with colds. This is especially important in the first two months of life.
Clean and disinfect surfaces. Clean and disinfect surfaces and items that people often touch, such as toys and doorknobs. This is especially important if a family member is sick.
Wash hands often. Frequently wash your own hands and those of your child. Wash with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Keep an alcohol-based hand sanitizer handy to use when you're away from home. Make sure it contains at least 60% alcohol.
Cover coughs and sneezes. Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue. Throw away the tissue. Then wash your hands. If soap and water aren't available, use a hand sanitizer. If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your elbow, not your hands.
Use your own drinking glass. Don't share glasses with others, especially if someone in your family is ill.
Breastfeed, when possible. Respiratory infections are less common in breastfed babies.
Condition name:Bronchitis
Overview of Bronchitis:
Bronchitis is an inflammation of the lining of your bronchial tubes. These tubes carry air to and from your lungs. People who have bronchitis often cough up thickened mucus, which can be discolored. Bronchitis may start suddenly and be short term (acute) or start gradually and become long term (chronic).
Acute bronchitis, which often develops from a cold or other respiratory infection, is very common. Also called a chest cold, acute bronchitis usually improves within a week to 10 days without lasting effects, although the cough may linger for weeks.
Chronic bronchitis, a more serious condition, is a constant irritation or inflammation of the lining of the bronchial tubes, often due to smoking. If you have repeated bouts of bronchitis, you may have chronic bronchitis, which requires medical attention. Chronic bronchitis is one of the conditions included in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Home Remedies for Bronchitis:
If you have bronchitis, to help you feel better, you may want to try the following self-care measures:
Get enough rest. Rest and sleep help your body heal.
Drink plenty of fluids. Staying hydrated can help to thin mucus.
Avoid lung irritants. Don't smoke. Wear a mask when the air is polluted or if you're exposed to irritants, such as paint or household cleaners with strong fumes.
Use a humidifier. Warm, moist air helps relieve coughs and loosens mucus in your airways. Be sure to clean the humidifier according to the manufacturer's recommendations to avoid the growth of bacteria and fungi in the water container.
Consider a face covering in cold air. If cold air makes your cough worse and causes shortness of breath, put on a face mask or cover your mouth and nose with a scarf before you go outside.
Symptoms for Bronchitis :
If you have acute bronchitis, you may have cold symptoms, such as:

Cough
Production of mucus (sputum), which can be clear, white, yellowish-gray or green in color — rarely, it may be streaked with blood
Sore throat
Mild headache and body aches
Slight fever and chills
Fatigue
Chest discomfort
Shortness of breath and wheezing
While these symptoms usually improve in about a week, you may have a nagging cough that lingers for several weeks.
For chronic bronchitis, signs and symptoms may include:
Cough
Production of mucus
Fatigue
Chest discomfort
Shortness of breath
Chronic bronchitis is typically defined as a productive cough that lasts at least three months, with bouts that recur for at least two consecutive years. If you have chronic bronchitis, you're likely to have periods when your cough or other symptoms worsen. It's also possible to have an acute infection on top of chronic bronchitis.
Causes for Bronchitis :
Acute bronchitis is usually caused by viruses, typically the same viruses that cause colds and flu (influenza). Many different viruses — all of which are very contagious — can cause acute bronchitis. Antibiotics don't kill viruses, so this type of medication isn't useful in most cases of bronchitis.
Viruses spread mainly from person to person by droplets produced when an ill person coughs, sneezes or talks and you inhale the droplets. Viruses may also spread through contact with an infected object. This happens when you touch something with the virus on it and then touch your mouth, eyes or nose.
The most common cause of chronic bronchitis is cigarette smoking. Air pollution and dust or toxic gases in the environment or workplace also can contribute to the condition.
Risk Factors for Bronchitis:
Factors that increase your risk of bronchitis include:
Cigarette smoke. People who smoke or who live with a smoker are at higher risk of both acute bronchitis and chronic bronchitis.
Low resistance. This may result from another acute illness, such as a cold, or from a chronic condition that compromises your immune system. Older adults, infants and young children have greater vulnerability to infection.
Exposure to irritants on the job. Your risk of developing bronchitis is greater if you work around certain lung irritants, such as grains or textiles, or are exposed to chemical fumes.
Gastric reflux. Repeated bouts of severe heartburn can irritate your throat and make you more prone to developing bronchitis.
Complications for Bronchitis:
Although a single episode of bronchitis usually isn't cause for concern, it can lead to pneumonia in some people. Repeated bouts of bronchitis, however, may mean that you have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Preventions for Bronchitis
To reduce your risk of bronchitis, follow these tips:
Get an annual flu shot. Many cases of acute bronchitis result from influenza, a virus. Getting a yearly flu vaccine can help protect you from getting the flu. Also ask your doctor or clinic if you need a vaccination that protects against certain types of pneumonia.
Wash your hands. To reduce your risk of catching a viral infection, wash your hands frequently and get in the habit of using alcohol-based hand sanitizers. Also, avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Avoid close contact with people who have a viral infection. Stay away from people who have the flu or another respiratory illness.
Avoid cigarette smoke. Cigarette smoke increases your risk of chronic bronchitis.
Wear appropriate face covering. If you have COPD, consider wearing a face mask at work if you're exposed to dust or fumes. Talk to your employer about the appropriate protection. Wearing a face mask when you're going to be among crowds helps reduce exposure to infections.
Condition name:Bruxism (teeth grinding)
Overview of Bruxism (teeth grinding):
Bruxism (BRUK-siz-um) is a condition in which you grind, gnash or clench your teeth. If you have bruxism, you may unconsciously clench your teeth when you're awake (awake bruxism) or clench or grind them during sleep (sleep bruxism).
Sleep bruxism is considered a sleep-related movement disorder. People who clench or grind their teeth (brux) during sleep are more likely to have other sleep disorders, such as snoring and pauses in breathing (sleep apnea).
Mild bruxism may not require treatment. However, in some people, bruxism can be frequent and severe enough to lead to jaw disorders, headaches, damaged teeth and other problems.
Because you may have sleep bruxism and be unaware of it until complications develop, it's important to know the signs and symptoms of bruxism and to seek regular dental care.
Home Remedies for Bruxism (teeth grinding):
These self-care steps may prevent or help treat bruxism:
Reduce stress. Listening to music, taking a warm bath or exercising can help you relax and may reduce your risk of developing bruxism.
Avoid stimulating substances in the evening. Don't drink caffeinated coffee or caffeinated tea after dinner and avoid alcohol during the evening, as they may worsen bruxism.
Practice good sleep habits. Getting a good night's sleep, which may include treatment for sleep problems, may help reduce bruxism.
Talk to your sleep partner. If you have a sleeping partner, ask him or her to be aware of any grinding or clicking sounds that you might make while sleeping so you can report this to your dentist or doctor.
Schedule regular dental exams. Dental exams are the best way to identify bruxism. Your dentist can spot signs of bruxism in your mouth and jaw during regular visits and exams.
Symptoms for Bruxism (teeth grinding) :
Signs and symptoms of bruxism may include:
Teeth grinding or clenching, which may be loud enough to wake up your sleep partner
Teeth that are flattened, fractured, chipped or loose
Worn tooth enamel, exposing deeper layers of your tooth
Increased tooth pain or sensitivity
Tired or tight jaw muscles, or a locked jaw that won't open or close completely
Jaw, neck or face pain or soreness
Pain that feels like an earache, though it's actually not a problem with your ear
Dull headache starting in the temples
Damage from chewing on the inside of your cheek
Sleep disruption
See your dentist or doctor if you have any of the symptoms listed above or have other concerns about your teeth or jaw.
If you notice that your child is grinding his or her teeth — or has other signs or symptoms of bruxism — be sure to mention it at your child's next dental appointment.
Causes for Bruxism (teeth grinding) :
Doctors don't completely understand what causes bruxism, but it may be due to a combination of physical, psychological and genetic factors.
Awake bruxism may be due to emotions such as anxiety, stress, anger, frustration or tension. Or it may be a coping strategy or a habit during deep concentration.
Sleep bruxism may be a sleep-related chewing activity associated with arousals during sleep.
Risk Factors for Bruxism (teeth grinding):
These factors increase your risk of bruxism:
Stress. Increased anxiety or stress can lead to teeth grinding. So can anger and frustration.
Age. Bruxism is common in young children, but it usually goes away by adulthood.
Personality type. Having a personality type that's aggressive, competitive or hyperactive can increase your risk of bruxism.
Medications and other substances. Bruxism may be an uncommon side effect of some psychiatric medications, such as certain antidepressants. Smoking tobacco, drinking caffeinated beverages or alcohol, or using recreational drugs may increase the risk of bruxism.
Family members with bruxism. Sleep bruxism tends to occur in families. If you have bruxism, other members of your family also may have bruxism or a history of it.
Other disorders. Bruxism can be associated with some mental health and medical disorders, such as Parkinson's disease, dementia, gastroesophageal reflux disorder (GERD), epilepsy, night terrors, sleep-related disorders such as sleep apnea, and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Complications for Bruxism (teeth grinding):
In most cases, bruxism doesn't cause serious complications. But severe bruxism may lead to:
Damage to your teeth, restorations, crowns or jaw
Tension-type headaches
Severe facial or jaw pain
Disorders that occur in the temporomandibular joints (TMJs), located just in front of your ears, which may sound like clicking when you open and close your mouth
There are no preventive measures available for Bruxism (teeth grinding) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Buerger disease
Overview of Buerger disease:
Buerger disease is a rare disease of the arteries and veins in the arms and legs. In Buerger disease — also called thromboangiitis obliterans — blood vessels become blocked. This reduces blood flow to the affected areas. Blood clots may form in the blood vessels.
Over time, the lack of blood flow damages or destroys skin tissue. The damage can lead to infection and death of body tissue, called gangrene. Buerger disease is usually first seen in the feet. It may eventually affect the blood vessels of the hand. Blood clots may form in the small veins of the arms and legs.
People who get Buerger disease almost always smoke cigarettes or use other forms of tobacco, such as chewing tobacco. Quitting all forms of tobacco is the only way to stop Buerger disease. For those who don't quit, surgery to remove fingers and toes might be needed.
Home Remedies for Buerger disease:
To improve symptoms of Buerger disease and prevent complications, take the following steps:
Exercise. Regular exercise helps improve blood flow. With your provider's OK, aim for 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care provider about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Check your skin. Buerger disease can cause a loss of feeling in the fingers, toes and other body areas. So an injury to the skin might go unnoticed. Check every day for cuts and scrapes on the arms and legs. Protect fingers and toes from cold and injury.
Clean cuts and scrapes. A lack of blood flow to the arms and legs increases the risk of infection. Even small cuts and scrapes can turn into serious infections. Always clean cuts and scrapes with soap and water to prevent infection. Apply antibiotic ointment and cover the cuts with clean bandages. If a skin injury gets worse or heals slowly, see a health care provider quickly.
Take care of your teeth and gums. Visit a dentist regularly to keep gums and teeth in good health. Long-term gum disease is linked to Buerger disease.
Do not smoke tobacco, vape or use marijuana. Not smoking is the best way to prevent and manage Buerger disease. Also avoid vaping, e-cigarettes and marijuana. It's also important to stay away from smoke from all burning tobacco products and the smoke a tobacco user breathes out. This type of smoke is called secondhand smoke. Any amount of secondhand smoke is bad for the heart and blood vessels.
Symptoms for Buerger disease :
Buerger disease symptoms include:
Tingling or numbness in the fingers or toes.
Changes in skin color in the hands and feet. The skin may look pale gray, red or blue. Depending on your skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fingers and toes that turn white then blue when exposed to cold, known as Raynaud's disease. Depending on your skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Pain in the feet that occurs with walking. The pain may make it difficult to walk long distances.
Painful open sores on fingers and toes. Pain in the fingers and toes may become severe and occur at rest.
Inflammation of a vein just below the skin's surface, due to a blood clot in the vein.
Causes for Buerger disease :
The exact cause of Buerger disease is unknown. The condition is strongly linked to tobacco use. It's thought that chemicals in tobacco may hurt the lining of the blood vessels.
Experts think that some people have genes that make them more likely to get Buerger disease. It's also possible that the disease occurs when the body's immune system attacks healthy tissue by mistake.
Risk Factors for Buerger disease:
The biggest risk factor for Buerger disease is smoking or using any type of tobacco. The disease can occur in people who smoke cigarettes, use cigars and chew tobacco. The rates of Buerger disease are highest in areas of the Mediterranean, Middle East and Asia where heavy smoking is most common.
Some research says that long-term use of marijuana, also called cannabis, also raises the risk of blood vessel problems similar to those of Buerger disease.
Other risk factors for Buerger disease include being male and being younger than 45 years old. Long-term infection of the gums in the mouth may also increase the risk. But more study is needed to confirm this link.
Complications for Buerger disease:
Buerger disease decreases blood flow to the hands and feet. As the disease gets worse, the skin and tissue in the affected areas do not get enough blood. This can cause painful open sores that do not heal. The sores may lead to a complication called gangrene.
Symptoms of gangrene include black or blue skin, a loss of feeling in the affected finger or toe, and a bad smell from the area. Gangrene is a serious condition. Surgery is usually needed to remove the affected finger, toe or other tissue.
Preventions for Buerger disease
Nearly everyone who has Buerger disease has smoked or used some form of tobacco. To prevent Buerger disease, it's important to not use tobacco.
Quitting smoking can be hard. Talk to a health care provider about ways to quit.
Condition name:Bulimia nervosa
Overview of Bulimia nervosa:
Bulimia (boo-LEE-me-uh) nervosa, commonly called bulimia, is a serious, potentially life-threatening eating disorder. People with bulimia binge eat. This means people feel like they've lost control over their eating. They eat large amounts of food in one sitting. This often occurs in secret, and they often feel very guilty and shameful. Then they try to get rid of the food and extra calories in an unhealthy way, such as vomiting or misusing laxatives. This is called purging.
If you have bulimia, you probably focus on your weight and body shape even when you're trying to think about other things. You may judge yourself severely and harshly for what you see as flaws in your appearance and personality. Bulimia is related to how you see yourself — not just about food. It can be hard to overcome, and it can be dangerous.
It's important to remember that an eating disorder is not something you choose. Bulimia is a complex illness that affects how your brain works and how you make decisions. But effective treatment can help you feel better about yourself, eat healthier and reverse serious complications.
Home Remedies for Bulimia nervosa:
In addition to professional treatment, use these self-care tips:
Follow your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions. Also, try to follow what you and your therapist plan for the time between sessions, even if those plans make you uncomfortable.
Learn about bulimia. Knowing more about your condition can help you stay with your treatment plan.
Get the right nutrition. If you aren't eating well or you're purging a lot, your body likely isn't getting all the nutrients it needs. Talk to your primary healthcare professional or dietitian about what vitamin and mineral supplements you need. But you should try to get most of your vitamins and minerals from food.
Stay in touch. Don't stay away from caring family members and friends who want to see you get healthy. Know that they have your best interests at heart. And having people who care about you in your life is healthy for you.
Be kind to yourself. Try not to weigh yourself or check yourself in the mirror a lot. These actions may fuel your drive to keep unhealthy habits.
Be cautious with exercise. Talk to your primary healthcare professional about what kind of physical activity is right for you, especially if you exercise a lot to burn off calories after binge eating.
Symptoms for Bulimia nervosa :
Bulimia symptoms may include:
Living in fear of gaining weight and trying to lose weight in unhealthy ways.
Repeatedly eating unusually large amounts of food in one sitting.
Feeling a loss of control during binge eating. You may feel like you can't stop eating or can't control what you eat.
Vomiting on purpose or exercising to extremes after binge eating so that you don't gain weight.
Using medicines that make you urinate, called water pills or diuretics, or laxatives or enemas to pass stool when they're not needed.
Fasting, limiting calories or not eating certain foods between binges.
Using dietary supplements or herbal products for weight loss. These products can be dangerous.
Being very unhappy with your body shape and weight.
Letting your body shape and weight guide how you feel about yourself and your worth.
Having extreme mood swings.
People with bulimia may use different methods to purge. The severity of bulimia depends on the number of times a week that you purge and the problems caused by doing so.
Causes for Bulimia nervosa :
The exact cause of bulimia is not known. Genes may play a role in the development of bulimia and other eating disorders. Emotional health and family history may play a role. Also, pressures from society to be thin may play a role.
Risk Factors for Bulimia nervosa:
Females are more likely to have bulimia than males. Bulimia often begins in the late teens or young adulthood.
Factors that raise your risk of bulimia include:
Family history and genes. Having a family history of eating problems and weight-control issues can increase the risk of an eating disorder. People with first-degree relatives — siblings, parents or children — who are diagnosed with an eating disorder may be more likely to have an eating disorder. This suggests a possible genetic link.
Mental health and emotional issues. Mental health and emotional problems, such as depression, anxiety or substance misuse, are linked closely with eating disorders. People with bulimia may feel badly about themselves, especially if they're bullied about weight or shape. In some cases, distressing events and factors that cause emotional distress may play a part, such as being mistreated as a child.
Dieting. People who diet are more likely to have eating disorders. Many people with bulimia severely limit calories between binge-eating sessions. This may cause them to binge eat again and then purge. Other causes for binge eating can include stress, strong emotions, having a distorted or negative body image and boredom.
Complications for Bulimia nervosa:
Bulimia may cause many serious and even life-threatening complications, including:
Not seeing yourself as worthy and feeling hopeless or even suicidal.
Problems getting along with others or being socially isolated.
Poor nutrition.
Not drinking enough fluids, which can lead to major medical problems, such as kidney failure.
Heart problems, such as an irregular heartbeat or heart failure.
Severe tooth decay and gum disease.
Not having a period or not having a period on a regular schedule.
Gastrointestinal problems, including tears in the tube that carries food, or a hole in your stomach or small intestine. You also could have rectal prolapse, which is when part of the large intestine slips outside the anus.
Conditions that often occur along with bulimia include anxiety, depression, personality disorders or bipolar disorder, and misuse of alcohol or drugs. Self-harm, thoughts about suicide or suicide also can occur.
Preventions for Bulimia nervosa
Although there's no sure way to prevent bulimia, you can steer someone toward healthier behavior or professional treatment before it gets worse. Here's how you can help:
Promote and support a healthy body image in your children, no matter what their size or shape. Help them become more confident in many parts of their personality, not just how they look.
Have regular, enjoyable family meals.
Don't talk about weight or shape at home.
Discourage dieting. This is especially important when it involves unhealthy weight-control behaviors, such as fasting, labeling foods as good or bad, using weight-loss supplements or laxatives, or vomiting.
Talk with your primary healthcare professional to look for early signs of an eating problem.
If you notice a loved one or friend who seems to have food issues that could lead to or suggest an eating disorder, think about talking to the person about these issues and ask how you can help. If you do so, be supportive.
Condition name:Bullous pemphigoid
Overview of Bullous pemphigoid:
Bullous pemphigoid (BUL-us PEM-fih-goid) is a rare skin condition that causes large, fluid-filled blisters. They develop on areas of skin that often flex — such as the lower abdomen, upper thighs or armpits. Bullous pemphigoid is most common in older adults.
Bullous pemphigoid occurs when your immune system attacks a thin layer of tissue below your outer layer of skin. The reason for this abnormal immune response is unknown, although it sometimes can be triggered by taking certain medications.
Bullous pemphigoid often goes away on its own in a few months, but may take as many as five years to resolve. Treatment usually helps heal the blisters and ease any itching. It may include corticosteroid medications, such as prednisone, and other drugs that suppress the immune system. Bullous pemphigoid can be life-threatening, especially for older people who are already in poor health.
Home Remedies for Bullous pemphigoid:
If you have bullous pemphigoid, you can help take care of your condition with the following self-care strategies:
Wound care. Follow your doctor's advice for daily care of blisters.
Limit activities if needed. Blisters on the feet and hands can make it difficult to walk or to go about daily activities. You may need to change your routine until the blisters are under control.
Avoid sun exposure. Avoid prolonged sun exposure on any area of the skin affected by bullous pemphigoid.
Dress in loosefitting cotton clothes. This helps protect your skin.
Watch what you eat. If you have blisters in your mouth, avoid eating hard and crunchy foods, such as chips and raw fruits and vegetables, because these types of foods might aggravate symptoms.
Symptoms for Bullous pemphigoid :
The signs and symptoms of bullous pemphigoid may include:
Itching skin, weeks or months before blisters form
Large blisters that don't easily rupture when touched, often along creases or folds in the skin
Skin around the blisters that is normal, reddish or darker than normal
Eczema or a hive-like rash
Small blisters or sores in the mouth or other mucous membranes (benign mucous membrane pemphigoid)
Causes for Bullous pemphigoid :
The blisters occur because of a malfunction in your immune system.
Your body's immune system normally produces antibodies to fight bacteria, viruses or other potentially harmful foreign substances. For reasons that are not clear, the body may develop an antibody to a particular tissue in your body.
In bullous pemphigoid, the immune system produces antibodies to the fibers that connect the outer layer of skin (epidermis) and the next layer of skin (dermis). These antibodies trigger inflammation that produces the blisters and itching of bullous pemphigoid.
Risk Factors for Bullous pemphigoid:
Bullous pemphigoid most commonly occurs in older adults, and the risk increases with age.
There are no Complications available for Bullous pemphigoid in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Bullous pemphigoid in the knowledge baseCondition name:Burning mouth syndrome
Overview of Burning mouth syndrome:
Burning mouth syndrome is the medical term for ongoing or recurring burning in the mouth without an obvious cause. You may feel this burning on your tongue, gums, lips, inside of your cheeks, roof of your mouth or large areas of your whole mouth. The feeling of burning can be severe, as if you injured your mouth with a very hot drink.
Burning mouth syndrome usually comes on suddenly, but it can develop slowly over time. Often the specific cause can't be found. Although that makes treatment more challenging, working closely with your health care team can help you reduce symptoms.
Home Remedies for Burning mouth syndrome:
In addition to medical treatment and prescription medicines, these self-help measures may reduce your symptoms:
Drink plenty of liquid to help ease the feeling of dry mouth, or suck on ice chips.
Avoid acidic foods and liquids, such as tomatoes, orange juice, carbonated beverages and coffee.
Avoid alcohol and products with alcohol, as they may irritate the lining of your mouth.
Don't use tobacco products.
Don't eat irritating foods, such as spicy-hot foods.
Avoid products with cinnamon or mint.
Try different mild or flavor-free toothpastes, such as one for sensitive teeth or one without mint or cinnamon.
Take steps to reduce stress and try relaxation methods.
Symptoms for Burning mouth syndrome :
Symptoms of burning mouth syndrome may include:
A burning or scalding feeling that most commonly affects your tongue, but also may affect your lips, gums, roof of your mouth, throat or whole mouth.
A feeling of dry mouth with increased thirst.
Taste changes in your mouth, such as a bitter or metallic taste.
Loss of taste.
Tingling, stinging or numbness in your mouth.
The discomfort from burning mouth syndrome can have several different patterns. It may:
Happen every day, with little discomfort when waking up, but become worse as the day goes on.
Start as soon as you wake up and last all day.
Come and go.
Whatever pattern of mouth discomfort you have, burning mouth syndrome may last for months to years. In rare cases, symptoms may suddenly go away on their own or happen less often. Sometimes the burning feeling may be briefly relieved during eating or drinking.
Burning mouth syndrome usually doesn't cause any physical changes to your tongue or mouth that can be seen.
Causes for Burning mouth syndrome :
The cause of burning mouth syndrome may be primary or secondary.
Risk Factors for Burning mouth syndrome:
Burning mouth syndrome is uncommon. However, your risk may be greater if you're:
Female.
In perimenopause or you're postmenopausal.
Over the age of 50.
A smoker.
Burning mouth syndrome usually starts suddenly, for no known reason. But certain factors may increase your risk of developing burning mouth syndrome, including:
Recent illness.
Some long-term medical conditions such as fibromyalgia, Parkinson's disease, autoimmune disorders and neuropathy.
Previous dental work.
Allergic reactions to food.
Certain medicines.
Traumatic life events.
Stress.
Anxiety.
Depression.
Complications for Burning mouth syndrome:
Complications that burning mouth syndrome may cause are mainly related to discomfort, such as problems falling asleep or difficulty eating. Long-term cases involving a lot of discomfort also could lead to anxiety or depression.
Preventions for Burning mouth syndrome
There's no known way to prevent burning mouth syndrome. But you may be able to reduce your discomfort by not using tobacco, limiting acidic or spicy foods, not drinking carbonated beverages, and using stress management methods. Or these measures may prevent your discomfort from feeling worse.
Condition name:Burns
Overview of Burns:
Burns are tissue damage that results from too much sun, hot liquids, flames, chemicals, electricity, steam and other sources. Burns can be minor medical problems or life-threatening emergencies.
The treatment of burns depends on where they are on the body and how bad they are. Sunburns and small scalds can often be treated with first aid. Deep or widespread burns and chemical or electrical burns need medical care right away. Some people need treatment at specialized burn centers and monthslong follow-up care.
There are no home remedies available for Burns in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Burns :
Burn symptoms vary depending on how deep the skin damage is. It can take a day or two for the symptoms of a severe burn to develop.
First-degree burn, also called superficial burn. This minor burn affects only the outer layer of the skin, which is called the epidermis. It may cause pain and redness or other changes in skin color.
Second-degree burn, also called partial-thickness burn. This type of burn affects both the epidermis and the second layer of skin, which is called the dermis. It may cause swelling and red, white or splotchy skin. Blisters may develop, and pain can be terrible. Deep second-degree burns can cause scarring.
Third-degree burn, also called full-thickness burn. This burn involves all of the layers of skin and sometimes the fat and muscle tissue under the skin. Burned areas may be black, brown or white. The skin may look leathery. Third-degree burns can destroy nerves, so there may be little or no pain.
Causes for Burns :
Burns are caused by:
Fire.
Hot liquid or steam.
Hot metal, glass or other objects.
Electrical currents.
Nonsolar radiation, such as that from X-rays.
Sunlight or other sources of ultraviolet radiation, such as tanning beds.
Chemicals such as strong acids, lye, paint thinner or gasoline.
Abuse.
Risk Factors for Burns:
Risk factors for burns include:
Workplace factors. People who work outdoors and people who work with flames, chemicals and other substances that cause burns are at increased risk of burns. Most burns occur in adults.
Dementia. Older adults with dementia are more likely to have burns from heat sources, such as too-hot tap water, hot drinks, food fats and cooking oils.
Being young. Very young children are unable to get away from heat sources or flames. Their burns often come from kitchen, car seat and bath hazards.
Alcohol. Risk of burns is increased among people who drink alcohol or use other substances that affect judgment.
Complications for Burns:
Complications of deep or widespread burns can include:
Infection. Examples include bacterial infection, tetanus, and pneumonia.
Fluid loss. This includes low blood volume, which is also known as hypovolemia.
Dangerously low body temperature. This is known as hypothermia.
Breathing problems. These can occur after taking in hot air or smoke.
Irregular heartbeats. Also called arrythmias, irregular heartbeats can occur after electrical burns.
Scars and changes in skin color. Scars or ridged areas can be caused by an overgrowth of scar tissue. These types of scars are called hypertrophic scars or keloids. Black people have an increased risk of this type of scarring and may benefit from seeing a burn specialist or surgeon. Other people may develop skin color changes after burns if healed skin is lighter or darker than skin that wasn't burned.
Pain. Burn scars can be painful. Some people may experience itching or discomfort related to damaged nerves, causing numbness or tingling.
Bone and joint problems. Scar tissue can shorten and tighten skin, muscles or tendons. This condition is also known as a contracture.
Depression and anxiety disorders.
Skin cancer. Skin cancer can sometimes happen in scars from previous burns. Contact your healthcare professional if you notice a sore that isn't healing within a burn scar.
Preventions for Burns
Burns are very common, and most of them are preventable. Kitchen-related injuries from hot drinks, soups and microwaved foods are especially common among children. You can take steps to reduce the risk of household burns.
Condition name:Bursitis
Overview of Bursitis:
Bursitis (bur-SY-tis) is a painful condition that affects the small, fluid-filled sacs — called bursae (bur-SEE) — that cushion the bones, tendons and muscles near your joints. Bursitis occurs when bursae become inflamed.
The most common locations for bursitis are in the shoulder, elbow and hip. But you can also have bursitis by your knee, heel and the base of your big toe. Bursitis often occurs near joints that perform frequent repetitive motion.
Treatment typically involves resting the affected joint and protecting it from further trauma. In most cases, bursitis pain goes away within a few weeks with proper treatment, but recurrent flare-ups of bursitis are common.
Home Remedies for Bursitis:
Measures you can take to relieve the pain of bursitis include:
Rest and don't overuse the affected area.
Apply ice to reduce swelling for the first 48 hours after symptoms occur.
Apply dry or moist heat, such as a heating pad or taking a warm bath.
Take an over-the-counter medication, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve, others), to relieve pain and reduce inflammation. Some are available in a form you apply to the skin.
Cushion your knees if you sleep on your side by placing a small pillow between your legs.
Symptoms for Bursitis :
If you have bursitis, the affected joint might:
Feel achy or stiff
Hurt more when you move it or press on it
Look swollen and red
Causes for Bursitis :
The most common causes of bursitis are repetitive motions or positions that put pressure on the bursae around a joint. Examples include:
Throwing a baseball or lifting something over your head repeatedly
Leaning on your elbows for long periods
Extensive kneeling for tasks such as laying carpet or scrubbing floors
Other causes include injury or trauma to the affected area, inflammatory arthritis such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout and infection.
Risk Factors for Bursitis:
Anyone can develop bursitis, but certain factors can increase your risk:
Age. Bursitis becomes more common with aging.
Occupations or hobbies. If your work or hobby requires repetitive motion or pressure on particular bursae, your risk of developing bursitis increases. Examples include carpet laying, tile setting, gardening, painting and playing a musical instrument.
Other medical conditions. Certain systemic diseases and conditions — such as rheumatoid arthritis, gout and diabetes — increase your risk of developing bursitis. Being overweight can increase your risk of developing hip and knee bursitis.
There are no Complications available for Bursitis in the knowledge basePreventions for Bursitis
While not all types of bursitis can be prevented, you can reduce your risk and the severity of flare-ups by changing the way you do certain tasks. Examples include:
Using kneeling pads. Use some type of padding to reduce the pressure on your knees if your job or hobby requires a lot of kneeling.
Lifting properly. Bend your knees when you lift. Failing to do so puts extra stress on the bursae in your hips.
Wheeling heavy loads. Carrying heavy loads puts stress on the bursae in your shoulders. Use a dolly or a wheeled cart instead.
Taking frequent breaks. Alternate repetitive tasks with rest or other activities.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight places more stress on your joints.
Exercising. Strengthening your muscles can help protect your affected joint.
Warming up and stretching before strenuous activities to protect your joints from injury.
Condition name:C. difficile infection
Overview of C. difficile infection:
Clostridioides difficile (klos-TRID-e-oi-deez dif-uh-SEEL) is a bacterium that causes an infection of the colon, the longest part of the large intestine. Symptoms can range from diarrhea to life-threatening damage to the colon. The bacterium is often called C. difficile or C. diff.
Illness from C. difficile often occurs after using antibiotic medicines. It mostly affects older adults in hospitals or in long-term care settings. People not in care settings or hospitals also can get C. difficile infection. Some strains of the bacterium that can cause serious infections are more likely to affect younger people.
The bacterium used to be called Clostridium (klos-TRID-e-um) difficile.
Home Remedies for C. difficile infection:
Supportive treatment for diarrhea includes:
Plenty of fluids. Choose fluids that have water, salt and sugar, such as diluted fruit juice, soft drinks and broths.
Good nutrition. For watery diarrhea, eat starchy foods, such as potatoes, noodles, rice, wheat and oatmeal. Other good choices are saltine crackers, bananas, soup and boiled vegetables. If you aren't hungry, you may need a liquid diet at first. After the diarrhea clears up, you might have trouble digesting milk and milk-based products for a while.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for C. difficile infection :
Symptoms often begin within 5 to 10 days after starting an antibiotic. But symptoms can occur as soon as the first day or up to three months later.
Causes for C. difficile infection :
C. difficile bacteria enter the body through the mouth. They can begin reproducing in the small intestine. When they reach the part of the large intestine, called the colon, the bacteria can release toxins that damage tissues. These toxins destroy cells and cause watery diarrhea.
Outside the colon, the bacteria aren't active. They can live for a long time in places such as:
Human or animal feces.
Surfaces in a room.
Unwashed hands.
Soil.
Water.
Food, including meat.
When bacteria once again find their way into a person's digestive system, they become active again and cause infection. Because C. difficile can live outside the body, the bacteria spread easily. Not washing hands or cleaning well make it easy to spread the bacteria.
Some people carry C. difficile bacteria in their intestines but never get sick from it. These people are carriers of the bacteria. They can spread infections without being sick.
Risk Factors for C. difficile infection:
People who have no known risk factors have gotten sick from C. difficile. But certain factors increase the risk.
Complications for C. difficile infection:
Complications of C. difficile infection include:
Loss of fluids, called dehydration. Severe diarrhea can lead to a serious loss of fluids and minerals called electrolytes. This makes it hard for the body to work as it should. It can cause blood pressure to drop so low as to be dangerous.
Kidney failure. In some cases, dehydration can occur so quickly that the kidneys stop working, called kidney failure.
Toxic megacolon. In this rare condition, the colon can't get rid of gas and stool. This causes it to enlarge, called megacolon. Untreated, the colon can burst.
Bacteria also may enter the bloodstream. Toxic megacolon may be fatal. It needs emergency surgery.
A hole in the large intestine, called bowel perforation. This rare condition results from damage to the lining of the colon or occurs after toxic megacolon. Bacteria spilling from the colon into the hollow space in the middle of the body, called the abdominal cavity, can lead to a life-threatening infection called peritonitis.
Death. Serious C. difficile infection can quickly become fatal if not treated promptly. Rarely, death can occur with mild to moderate infection.
Preventions for C. difficile infection
To protect against C. difficile, don't take antibiotics unless you need them. Sometimes, you may get a prescription for antibiotics to treat conditions not caused by bacteria, such as viral illnesses. Antibiotics don't help infections caused by viruses.
If you need an antibiotic, ask if you can get a prescription for a medicine that you take for a shorter time or is a narrow-spectrum antibiotic. Narrow-spectrum antibiotics target a limited number of bacteria types. They're less likely to affect healthy bacteria.
To help prevent the spread of C. difficile, hospitals and other health care settings follow strict rules to control infections. If you have a loved one in a hospital or nursing home, follow the rules. Ask questions if you see caregivers or other people not following the rules.
Measures to prevent C. difficile include:
Hand-washing. Health care workers should make sure their hands are clean before and after treating each person in their care. For a C. difficile outbreak, using soap and warm water is better for cleaning hands. Alcohol-based hand sanitizers don't destroy C. difficile spores.
Visitors to health care facilities also should wash their hands with soap and warm water before and after leaving rooms or using the bathroom.
Contact precautions. People who are hospitalized with C. difficile infection have a private room or share a room with someone who has the same illness. Hospital staff and visitors wear disposable gloves and isolation gowns while in the room.
Thorough cleaning. In any health care setting, all surfaces should be carefully disinfected with a product that has chlorine bleach. C. difficile spores can survive cleaning products that don't have bleach.
Condition name:Calciphylaxis
Overview of Calciphylaxis:
Calciphylaxis (kal-sih-fuh-LAK-sis) is a rare, serious disease. It involves a buildup of calcium in small blood vessels of fat tissues and skin.
Calciphylaxis symptoms include blood clots, lumps under the skin and painful open sores called ulcers. If an ulcer becomes infected, it can be life-threatening.
The exact cause of calciphylaxis isn't clear. But people with the disease usually have kidney failure. That's a condition in which the kidneys no longer work as they should. Often, these same people also have received kidney failure treatments such as dialysis or a kidney transplant. Calciphylaxis can happen in people without kidney disease too.
Calciphylaxis treatments include various medicines, procedures and surgery. Treatment can help prevent blood clots and infections, reduce calcium buildups, heal sores, and ease pain.
There are no home remedies available for Calciphylaxis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Calciphylaxis :
Calciphylaxis symptoms include:
Large netlike patterns on the skin that may look purple-pink in color.
Deep, painful lumps in the skin that can become ulcers. The ulcers often have a black-brown crust that doesn't heal on its own. Ulcers tend to appear in areas with high fat content, such as the stomach, thighs, buttocks and breasts. But they can form anywhere.
Infections from ulcers that don't heal.
Causes for Calciphylaxis :
The exact cause of calciphylaxis isn't known. The disease involves the buildup of calcium in the smallest parts of the arteries in fat tissues and skin.
Many people who get calciphylaxis also have kidney failure or receive dialysis. It's not known why people with kidney failure or people receiving dialysis are at higher risk of calciphylaxis.
For some people, the calcium buildup in calciphylaxis is linked with small organs in the neck called parathyroid glands. If the glands release too many parathyroid hormones, that can cause calcium to collect. But the link isn't clear. Most people with seriously overactive parathyroid glands don't get calciphylaxis. And many people with kidney failure and calciphylaxis don't have overactive parathyroid glands.
Other factors that seem to play roles in calciphylaxis include:
A greater tendency for blood to clot. Blood clots can deprive fat tissues and skin of oxygen and nourishment.
Reduced blood flow in small arteries, which can lead to skin lumps and ulcers.
Thickening or scarring of tissue, also called fibrosis.
Ongoing damage to the thin layer of cells that lines blood vessels. This also is called vascular endothelial injury.
Swelling, called inflammation, in the body.
Risk Factors for Calciphylaxis:
Calciphylaxis most often affects people who have kidney failure. Other risk factors include:
Being born female.
Obesity.
Diabetes mellitus.
Liver failure, when the liver stops working as it should.
A history of dialysis. This procedure removes waste and extra fluid from the blood when the kidneys no longer can.
A greater tendency for blood to clot, also called a hypercoagulable state.
An imbalance in the body of the minerals calcium or phosphate, or of the protein albumin.
Some medicines, such as warfarin (Jantoven), calcium-binding agents and corticosteroids.
Complications for Calciphylaxis:
Complications of calciphylaxis include:
Serious pain.
Large, deep ulcers that do not heal on their own.
Blood infections.
Death, mainly due to infection or organ failure.
Often, the outlook for people with calciphylaxis isn't hopeful. Finding and treating any infections early is key to preventing serious complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Calciphylaxis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cancer
Overview of Cancer:
Cancer refers to any one of a large number of diseases characterized by the development of abnormal cells that divide uncontrollably and have the ability to infiltrate and destroy normal body tissue. Cancer often has the ability to spread throughout your body.
Cancer is the second-leading cause of death in the world. But survival rates are improving for many types of cancer, thanks to improvements in cancer screening, treatment and prevention.
There are no home remedies available for Cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cancer :
Signs and symptoms caused by cancer will vary depending on what part of the body is affected.
Some general signs and symptoms associated with, but not specific to, cancer, include:
Fatigue
Lump or area of thickening that can be felt under the skin
Weight changes, including unintended loss or gain
Skin changes, such as yellowing, darkening or redness of the skin, sores that won't heal, or changes to existing moles
Changes in bowel or bladder habits
Persistent cough or trouble breathing
Difficulty swallowing
Hoarseness
Persistent indigestion or discomfort after eating
Persistent, unexplained muscle or joint pain
Persistent, unexplained fevers or night sweats
Unexplained bleeding or bruising
Causes for Cancer :
Cancer is caused by changes (mutations) to the DNA within cells. The DNA inside a cell is packaged into a large number of individual genes, each of which contains a set of instructions telling the cell what functions to perform, as well as how to grow and divide. Errors in the instructions can cause the cell to stop its normal function and may allow a cell to become cancerous.
Risk Factors for Cancer:
While doctors have an idea of what may increase your risk of cancer, the majority of cancers occur in people who don't have any known risk factors. Factors known to increase your risk of cancer include:
Complications for Cancer:
Cancer and its treatment can cause several complications, including:
Pain. Pain can be caused by cancer or by cancer treatment, though not all cancer is painful. Medications and other approaches can effectively treat cancer-related pain.
Fatigue. Fatigue in people with cancer has many causes, but it can often be managed. Fatigue associated with chemotherapy or radiation therapy treatments is common, but it's usually temporary.
Difficulty breathing. Cancer or cancer treatment may cause a feeling of being short of breath. Treatments may bring relief.
Nausea. Certain cancers and cancer treatments can cause nausea. Your doctor can sometimes predict if your treatment is likely to cause nausea. Medications and other treatments may help you prevent or decrease nausea.
Diarrhea or constipation. Cancer and cancer treatment can affect your bowels and cause diarrhea or constipation.
Weight loss. Cancer and cancer treatment may cause weight loss. Cancer steals food from normal cells and deprives them of nutrients. This is often not affected by how many calories or what kind of food is eaten; it's difficult to treat. In most cases, using artificial nutrition through tubes into the stomach or vein does not help change the weight loss.
Chemical changes in your body. Cancer can upset the normal chemical balance in your body and increase your risk of serious complications. Signs and symptoms of chemical imbalances might include excessive thirst, frequent urination, constipation and confusion.
Brain and nervous system problems. Cancer can press on nearby nerves and cause pain and loss of function of one part of your body. Cancer that involves the brain can cause headaches and stroke-like signs and symptoms, such as weakness on one side of your body.
Unusual immune system reactions to cancer. In some cases the body's immune system may react to the presence of cancer by attacking healthy cells. Called paraneoplastic syndromes, these very rare reactions can lead to a variety of signs and symptoms, such as difficulty walking and seizures.
Cancer that spreads. As cancer advances, it may spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body. Where cancer spreads depends on the type of cancer.
Cancer that returns. Cancer survivors have a risk of cancer recurrence. Some cancers are more likely to recur than others. Ask your doctor about what you can do to reduce your risk of cancer recurrence. Your doctor may devise a follow-up care plan for you after treatment. This plan may include periodic scans and exams in the months and years after your treatment, to look for cancer recurrence.
Preventions for Cancer
Doctors have identified several ways to reduce your risk of cancer, such as:
Stop smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Smoking is linked to several types of cancer — not just lung cancer. Stopping now will reduce your risk of cancer in the future.
Avoid excessive sun exposure. Harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun can increase your risk of skin cancer. Limit your sun exposure by staying in the shade, wearing protective clothing or applying sunscreen.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Select whole grains and lean proteins. Limit your intake of processed meats.
Exercise most days of the week. Regular exercise is linked to a lower risk of cancer. Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. If you haven't been exercising regularly, start out slowly and work your way up to 30 minutes or longer.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight or obese may increase your risk of cancer. Work to achieve and maintain a healthy weight through a combination of a healthy diet and regular exercise.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if you choose to drink. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Schedule cancer screening exams. Talk to your doctor about what types of cancer screening exams are best for you based on your risk factors.
Ask your doctor about immunizations. Certain viruses increase your risk of cancer. Immunizations may help prevent those viruses, including hepatitis B, which increases the risk of liver cancer, and human papillomavirus (HPV), which increases the risk of cervical cancer and other cancers. Ask your doctor whether immunization against these viruses is appropriate for you.
Condition name:Canker sore
Overview of Canker sore:
Canker sores, also called aphthous ulcers, are small, shallow lesions that develop on the soft tissues in your mouth or at the base of your gums. Unlike cold sores, canker sores don't occur on the surface of your lips and they aren't contagious. They can be painful, however, and can make eating and talking difficult.
Most canker sores go away on their own in a week or two. Check with your doctor or dentist if you have unusually large or painful canker sores or canker sores that don't seem to heal.
Home Remedies for Canker sore:
To help relieve pain and speed healing, consider these tips:
Rinse your mouth. Use salt water or baking soda rinse (dissolve 1 teaspoon of baking soda in 1/2 cup warm water).
Dab a small amount of milk of magnesia on your canker sore a few times a day.
Avoid abrasive, acidic or spicy foods that can cause further irritation and pain.
Apply ice to your canker sores by allowing ice chips to slowly dissolve over the sores.
Brush your teeth gently, using a soft brush and foaming-agent-free toothpaste such as Biotene or Sensodyne ProNamel.
Symptoms for Canker sore :
Most canker sores are round or oval with a white or yellow center and a red border. They form inside your mouth — on or under your tongue, inside your cheeks or lips, at the base of your gums, or on your soft palate. You might notice a tingling or burning sensation a day or two before the sores actually appear.
There are several types of canker sores, including minor, major and herpetiform sores.
Causes for Canker sore :
The precise cause of canker sores remains unclear, though researchers suspect that a combination of factors contributes to outbreaks, even in the same person.
Possible triggers for canker sores include:
A minor injury to your mouth from dental work, overzealous brushing, sports mishaps or an accidental cheek bite
Toothpastes and mouth rinses containing sodium lauryl sulfate
Food sensitivities, particularly to chocolate, coffee, strawberries, eggs, nuts, cheese, and spicy or acidic foods
A diet lacking in vitamin B-12, zinc, folate (folic acid) or iron
An allergic response to certain bacteria in your mouth
Helicobacter pylori, the same bacteria that cause peptic ulcers
Hormonal shifts during menstruation
Emotional stress
Canker sores may also occur because of certain conditions and diseases, such as:
Celiac disease, a serious intestinal disorder caused by a sensitivity to gluten, a protein found in most grains
Inflammatory bowel diseases, such as Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis
Behcet's disease, a rare disorder that causes inflammation throughout the body, including the mouth
A faulty immune system that attacks healthy cells in your mouth instead of pathogens, such as viruses and bacteria
HIV/AIDS, which suppresses the immune system
Unlike cold sores, canker sores are not associated with herpes virus infections.
Risk Factors for Canker sore:
Anyone can develop canker sores. But they occur more often in teens and young adults, and they're more common in females.
Often people with recurrent canker sores have a family history of the disorder. This may be due to heredity or to a shared factor in the environment, such as certain foods or allergens.
There are no Complications available for Canker sore in the knowledge basePreventions for Canker sore
Canker sores often recur, but you may be able to reduce their frequency by following these tips:
Watch what you eat. Try to avoid foods that seem to irritate your mouth. These may include nuts, chips, pretzels, certain spices, salty foods and acidic fruits, such as pineapple, grapefruit and oranges. Avoid any foods to which you're sensitive or allergic.
Choose healthy foods. To help prevent nutritional deficiencies, eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Follow good oral hygiene habits. Regular brushing after meals and flossing once a day can keep your mouth clean and free of foods that might trigger a sore. Use a soft brush to help prevent irritation to delicate mouth tissues, and avoid toothpastes and mouth rinses that contain sodium lauryl sulfate.
Protect your mouth. If you have braces or other dental appliances, ask your dentist about orthodontic waxes to cover sharp edges.
Reduce your stress. If your canker sores seem to be related to stress, learn and use stress-reduction techniques, such as meditation and guided imagery.
Condition name:Carbon monoxide poisoning
Overview of Carbon monoxide poisoning:
Carbon monoxide poisoning occurs when carbon monoxide builds up in the blood. When too much carbon monoxide is in the air, the body replaces the oxygen in the red blood cells with carbon monoxide. This can lead to serious tissue damage, or even death.
Carbon monoxide is gas that has no odor, taste or color. Burning fuels, including gas, wood, propane or charcoal, make carbon monoxide. Appliances and engines that aren't well vented can cause the gas to build up to dangerous levels. A tightly enclosed space makes the buildup worse.
Anyone exposed to carbon monoxide needs to get into fresh air and seek medical care right away. Call emergency medical services (EMS) or dial 911 right away for someone who's in a coma or can't respond.
There are no home remedies available for Carbon monoxide poisoning in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Carbon monoxide poisoning :
Carbon monoxide poisoning affects the brain and heart the most. Exposure over time might lead to symptoms that can be mistaken for the flu without the fever. Clearer symptoms of carbon monoxide poisoning can include:
Headache.
Weakness.
Dizziness.
Nausea or vomiting.
Shortness of breath.
Confusion.
Blurred vision.
Drowsiness.
Loss of muscle control.
Loss of consciousness.
Symptoms related to the nervous system and brain can come on after recovery from carbon monoxide poisoning. The risk of these is higher in people who lost consciousness from the carbon monoxide and older people. Symptoms might include:
Memory loss.
Personality changes.
Movement problems.
Carbon monoxide poisoning can be especially dangerous for people who are asleep, drugged or drunk. Carbon monoxide can cause brain damage or death before anyone realizes there's a problem.
Causes for Carbon monoxide poisoning :
Many fuel-burning products and engines make carbon monoxide. Most often the amount of carbon monoxide from these sources isn't cause for worry in areas with good air flow. But if they're used in a partly closed or closed space, the carbon monoxide level can be a danger. Examples are using a charcoal grill indoors or a running car inside a garage.
Breathing the fumes causes carbon monoxide to replace oxygen in the blood. This prevents oxygen from getting to tissues and organs.
Breathing in smoke during a fire also can cause carbon monoxide poisoning. And smoking through a water pipe, called a hookah, has been linked to increasing numbers of younger people getting carbon monoxide poisoning.
Risk Factors for Carbon monoxide poisoning:
Breathing in carbon monoxide can be especially dangerous for:
Unborn babies. Fetal blood cells take up carbon monoxide more easily than adult blood cells do.
Infants and children. Young children take breaths more often than adults do.
Older adults. Older people who have carbon monoxide poisoning may be more likely to get brain damage.
Complications for Carbon monoxide poisoning:
Damage from carbon monoxide depends on how much is breathed in and for how long. Carbon monoxide poisoning can cause:
Brain damage that doesn't heal.
Damage to the heart, possibly leading to life-threatening heart problems.
Death.
Preventions for Carbon monoxide poisoning
To help prevent carbon monoxide poisoning:
Have carbon monoxide detectors in the home. Put them near each sleeping area on every level of the house. Check the batteries at least twice a year at the same time as checking the smoke detector batteries.
If the alarm sounds, believe it! Leave the house and call 911 or the fire department. Carbon monoxide detectors are also made for motor homes and boats.
Open the garage door before starting the car. Never leave a car running in the garage, especially if the garage is attached to the house. That's true even if the garage door is open.
Use gas appliances only as intended. Never use a gas stove or oven for heat. Use gas camp stoves outdoors only. Use fuel-burning space heaters only when someone is awake to keep an eye on them and doors or windows are open. Don't run a generator in an enclosed space, such as the basement or garage.
Make sure there's space around fuel-burning appliances and engines. These include all gas appliances, space heaters and wood-burning stoves. Make sure they're vented properly.
Have professionals set up all gas, oil or coal-burning appliances. Have a qualified service-provider service them yearly.
Keep fireplaces in good condition. Clean the fireplace chimney and flue every year.
Keep vents and chimneys unblocked during remodeling. Check that they aren't covered by tarps or debris.
Do repairs before returning to where the poisoning occurred. If carbon monoxide poisoning has occurred in the home, find and repair the source of the carbon monoxide before staying there again. Have a qualified service person check and repair any appliances that might have caused the leak.
Condition name:Carcinoid tumors
Overview of Carcinoid tumors:
Carcinoid tumors are a type of slow-growing cancer that can arise in several places throughout your body. Carcinoid tumors, which are one subset of tumors called neuroendocrine tumors, usually begin in the digestive tract (stomach, appendix, small intestine, colon, rectum) or in the lungs.
Carcinoid tumors often don't cause signs and symptoms until late in the disease. Carcinoid tumors can produce and release hormones into your body that cause signs and symptoms such as diarrhea or skin flushing.
Treatment for carcinoid tumors usually includes surgery and may include medications.
There are no home remedies available for Carcinoid tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Carcinoid tumors :
Some carcinoid tumors don't cause any signs or symptoms. When they do occur, signs and symptoms are usually vague and depend on the location of the tumor.
Causes for Carcinoid tumors :
It's not clear what causes carcinoid tumors. In general, cancer occurs when a cell develops mutations in its DNA. The mutations allow the cell to continue growing and dividing when healthy cells would normally die.
The accumulating cells form a tumor. Cancer cells can invade nearby healthy tissue and spread to other parts of the body.
Doctors don't know what causes the mutations that can lead to carcinoid tumors. But they know that carcinoid tumors develop in neuroendocrine cells.
Neuroendocrine cells are found in various organs throughout the body. They perform some nerve cell functions and some hormone-producing endocrine cell functions. Some hormones that are produced by neuroendocrine cells are histamine, insulin and serotonin.
Risk Factors for Carcinoid tumors:
Factors that increase the risk of carcinoid tumors include:
Older age. Older adults are more likely to be diagnosed with a carcinoid tumor than are younger people or children.
Sex. Women are more likely than men to develop carcinoid tumors.
Family history. A family history of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1), increases the risk of carcinoid tumors. In people with MEN 1 multiple tumors occur in glands of the endocrine system.
Complications for Carcinoid tumors:
The cells of carcinoid tumors can secrete hormones and other chemicals, causing a range of complications including:
Carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid syndrome causes redness or a feeling of warmth in your face and neck (skin flushing), chronic diarrhea, and difficulty breathing, among other signs and symptoms.
Carcinoid heart disease. Carcinoid tumors may secrete hormones that can cause thickening of the lining of heart chambers, valves and blood vessels. This can lead to leaky heart valves and heart failure that may require valve-replacement surgery. Carcinoid heart disease can usually be controlled with medications.
Cushing syndrome. A lung carcinoid tumor can produce an excess of a hormone that can cause your body to produce too much of the hormone cortisol.
There are no preventive measures available for Carcinoid tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Carcinoma of unknown primary
Overview of Carcinoma of unknown primary:
Carcinoma of unknown primary is a diagnosis given when doctors aren't able to locate where a cancer began.
Most often, cancer is diagnosed when doctors discover the spot where the cancer began (primary tumor). If the cancer has spread (metastasized), those sites might be discovered, too.
In carcinoma of unknown primary, also known as occult primary cancer, doctors find the cancer cells that spread in the body, but they can't find the primary tumor.
Doctors consider the location of the primary tumor when choosing the most appropriate treatments. So if carcinoma of unknown primary is found, doctors work to try to identify the primary tumor site. Your doctor might consider your risk factors, symptoms, and results from exams, imaging tests and pathology tests when trying to determine where your cancer began.
There are no home remedies available for Carcinoma of unknown primary in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Carcinoma of unknown primary :
Signs and symptoms of carcinoma of unknown primary depend on what part of the body is involved. In general, they might include:
A lump that can be felt through the skin
Pain
Changes in bowel habits, such as new and persistent constipation or diarrhea
Frequent urination
Cough
Fever
Night sweats
Losing weight without trying
Causes for Carcinoma of unknown primary :
In general, cancer forms when cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. The DNA contains instructions that tell cells what to do. Certain mutations can cause a cell to multiply uncontrollably and to continue living when normal cells would die. When this happens, the abnormal cells accumulate and form a tumor. The tumor cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
In carcinoma of unknown primary, the cancer cells that spread to other parts of the body are found. But the original tumor isn't found.
This can happen if:
The original cancer is too small to be detected by imaging tests
The original cancer was killed by the body's immune system
The original cancer was removed in an operation for another condition
Risk Factors for Carcinoma of unknown primary:
The risk of carcinoma of unknown primary might be related to:
Older age. This type of cancer is most likely to occur in people older than 60.
Family history of cancer. There's some evidence that carcinoma of unknown primary might be associated with a family history of cancer that affects the lungs, kidneys or colon.
There are no Complications available for Carcinoma of unknown primary in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Carcinoma of unknown primary in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cardiomyopathy
Overview of Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiomyopathy (kahr-dee-o-my-OP-uh-thee) is a disease of the heart muscle. It causes the heart to have a harder time pumping blood to the rest of the body, which can lead to symptoms of heart failure. Cardiomyopathy also can lead to some other serious heart conditions.
There are various types of cardiomyopathy. The main types include dilated, hypertrophic and restrictive cardiomyopathy. Treatment includes medicines and sometimes surgically implanted devices and heart surgery. Some people with severe cardiomyopathy need a heart transplant. Treatment depends on the type of cardiomyopathy and how serious it is.
Home Remedies for Cardiomyopathy:
These lifestyle changes can help you manage cardiomyopathy:
Don't smoke. If you smoke, quit. You can ask your healthcare professional for help.
Lose weight if you're overweight. Ask your care team what a healthy weight is for you.
Get regular exercise. Talk to your healthcare professional about the safest type and amount for you.
Eat a healthy diet. Include a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Use less salt. Cut back on foods that are high in sodium. Aim for less than 1,500 milligrams of sodium a day.
Avoid or limit alcohol.
Manage stress.
Get enough sleep.
Take all medicines as prescribed.
Get regular health checkups.
Symptoms for Cardiomyopathy :
Some people with cardiomyopathy don't ever get symptoms. For others, symptoms appear as the condition becomes worse. Cardiomyopathy symptoms can include:
Shortness of breath or trouble breathing with activity or even at rest.
Chest pain, especially after physical activity or heavy meals.
Heartbeats that feel rapid, pounding or fluttering.
Swelling of the legs, ankles, feet, stomach area and neck veins.
Bloating of the stomach area due to fluid buildup.
Cough while lying down.
Trouble lying flat to sleep.
Fatigue, even after getting rest.
Dizziness.
Fainting.
Symptoms tend to get worse unless they are treated. In some people, the condition becomes worse quickly. In others, it might not become worse for a long time.
Causes for Cardiomyopathy :
Often, the cause of the cardiomyopathy isn't known. But some people get it due to another condition. This is known as acquired cardiomyopathy. Other people are born with cardiomyopathy because of a gene passed on from a parent. This is called inherited cardiomyopathy.
Certain health conditions or behaviors that can lead to acquired cardiomyopathy include:
Long-term high blood pressure.
Heart tissue damage from a heart attack.
Long-term rapid heart rate.
Heart valve problems.
COVID-19 infection.
Certain infections, especially those that cause inflammation of the heart.
Metabolic disorders, such as obesity, thyroid disease or diabetes.
Lack of essential vitamins or minerals in the diet, such as thiamin (vitamin B-1).
Pregnancy complications.
Iron buildup in the heart muscle, called hemochromatosis.
The growth of tiny lumps of inflammatory cells called granulomas in any part of the body. When this happens in the heart or lungs, it's called sarcoidosis.
The buildup of irregular proteins in the organs, called amyloidosis.
Connective tissue disorders.
Drinking too much alcohol over many years.
Use of cocaine, amphetamines or anabolic steroids.
Use of some chemotherapy medicines and radiation to treat cancer.
Types of cardiomyopathy include:
Dilated cardiomyopathy. In this type of cardiomyopathy, the heart's chambers thin and stretch, growing larger. The condition tends to start in the heart's main pumping chamber, called the left ventricle. As a result, the heart has trouble pumping blood to the rest of the body.
This type can affect people of all ages. But it happens most often in people younger than 50 and is more likely to affect men. Conditions that can lead to a dilated heart include coronary artery disease and heart attack. But for some people, gene changes play a role in the disease.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. In this type, the heart muscle becomes thickened. This makes it harder for the heart to work. The condition mostly affects the muscle of the heart's main pumping chamber.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can start at any age. But it tends to be worse if it happens during childhood. Most people with this type of cardiomyopathy have a family history of the disease. Some gene changes have been linked to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The condition doesn't happen due to a heart problem.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy. In this type, the heart muscle becomes stiff and less flexible. As a result, it can't expand and fill with blood between heartbeats. This least common type of cardiomyopathy can happen at any age. But it most often affects older people.
Restrictive cardiomyopathy can occur for no known reason, also called an idiopathic cause. Or it can by caused by a disease elsewhere in the body that affects the heart, such as amyloidosis.
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC). This is a rare type of cardiomyopathy that tends to happen between the ages of 10 and 50. It mainly affects the muscle in the lower right heart chamber, called the right ventricle. The muscle is replaced by fat that can become scarred. This can lead to heart rhythm problems. Sometimes, the condition involves the left ventricle as well. ARVC often is caused by gene changes.
Unclassified cardiomyopathy. Other types of cardiomyopathy fall into this group.
Risk Factors for Cardiomyopathy:
Many things can raise the risk of cardiomyopathy, including:
Family history of cardiomyopathy, heart failure and sudden cardiac arrest.
Long-term high blood pressure.
Conditions that affect the heart. These include a past heart attack, coronary artery disease or an infection in the heart.
Obesity, which makes the heart work harder.
Long-term alcohol misuse.
Illicit drug use, such as cocaine, amphetamines and anabolic steroids.
Treatment with certain chemotherapy medicines and radiation for cancer.
Many diseases also raise the risk of cardiomyopathy, including:
Diabetes.
Thyroid disease.
Storage of excess iron in the body, called hemochromatosis.
Buildup of a certain protein in organs, called amyloidosis.
The growth of small patches of inflamed tissue in organs, called sarcoidosis.
Connective tissue disorders.
Complications for Cardiomyopathy:
Cardiomyopathy can lead to serious medical conditions, including:
Heart failure. The heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. Without treatment, heart failure can be life-threatening.
Blood clots. Because the heart can't pump well, blood clots might form in the heart. If clots enter the bloodstream, they can block the blood flow to other organs, including the heart and brain.
Heart valve problems. Because cardiomyopathy can cause the heart to become larger, the heart valves might not close properly. This can cause blood to flow backward in the valve.
Cardiac arrest and sudden death. Cardiomyopathy can trigger irregular heart rhythms that cause fainting. Sometimes, irregular heartbeats can cause sudden death if the heart stops beating effectively.
Preventions for Cardiomyopathy
Inherited types of cardiomyopathy can't be prevented. Let your healthcare professional know if you have a family history of the condition.
You can help lower the risk of acquired types of cardiomyopathy, which are caused by other conditions. Take steps to lead a heart-healthy lifestyle, including:
Stay away from alcohol or illegal drugs such as cocaine.
Control any other conditions you have, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes.
Eat a healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Get enough sleep.
Lower your stress.
These healthy habits also can help people with inherited cardiomyopathy control their symptoms.
Condition name:Carotid artery disease
Overview of Carotid artery disease:
Carotid artery disease occurs when fatty deposits, called plaques, clog the blood vessels that deliver blood to the brain and head (carotid arteries). The clog increases the risk of stroke. Stroke is a medical emergency that occurs when the brain loses all or much of its blood supply.
During a stroke, the brain doesn't get oxygen and brain cells begin to die within minutes. Stroke is a leading cause of death and disability in the U.S.
Carotid artery disease often develops slowly. The first sign of the condition might be a stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA). A TIA is a temporary shortage of blood flow to the brain.
Treatment of carotid artery disease usually involves lifestyle changes, medicines and sometimes surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Carotid artery disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Carotid artery disease :
In its early stages, carotid artery disease often doesn't have symptoms. The condition might not be obvious until it's serious enough to deprive the brain of blood, causing a stroke or TIA.
Symptoms of a stroke or TIA include:
Sudden numbness or weakness in the face or limbs, often on one side of the body.
Sudden trouble speaking and understanding speech.
Sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes.
Sudden dizziness or loss of balance.
Sudden, severe headache with no known cause.
Causes for Carotid artery disease :
A buildup of fatty deposits, known as plaques, in the arteries that send blood to the brain cause carotid artery disease. Plaques are clumps that include cholesterol, fat and blood cells that form in the artery. This process is called atherosclerosis.
Carotid arteries that are clogged with plaques narrow. A clog in carotid arteries makes it hard for oxygen and nutrients to reach the brain.
Risk Factors for Carotid artery disease:
Factors that increase the risk of carotid artery disease include:
High blood pressure. Too much pressure on artery walls can weaken them and make them easier to damage.
Tobacco use. Nicotine can irritate the inner lining of the arteries. Smoking also increases heart rate and blood pressure.
Diabetes. Diabetes lowers the ability to process fats, creating a greater risk of high blood pressure and atherosclerosis.
High blood-fat levels. High levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and high levels of triglycerides, a blood fat, help the buildup of plaques.
Family history. The risk of carotid artery disease is higher if a relative has atherosclerosis or coronary artery disease.
Age. Arteries become less flexible and more likely to be injured with age.
Obesity. Excess weight increases the chances of high blood pressure, atherosclerosis and diabetes.
Sleep apnea. Spells of stopping breathing at night might increase the risk of stroke.
Lack of exercise. Not exercising leads to conditions that can damage the arteries, including high blood pressure, diabetes and obesity.
Complications for Carotid artery disease:
Carotid artery disease causes about 10% to 15% of strokes. A stroke is a medical emergency that can cause brain damage, muscle weakness and possibly death.
Carotid artery disease can lead to stroke through:
Reduced blood flow. A carotid artery might get so narrow because of atherosclerosis that not enough blood reaches parts of the brain.
Ruptured plaques. A piece of a plaque can break off and travel to smaller arteries in the brain. The piece of plaque can get stuck in one of these smaller arteries. This blockage cuts off blood supply to part of the brain.
Blood clot blockage. Some plaques are prone to cracking and forming irregular surfaces on the artery wall. The body reacts as it does to an injury. It sends blood cells that help the clotting process to the area. The result can be a large clot that blocks or slows blood flow to the brain, causing a stroke.
Preventions for Carotid artery disease
These steps can help prevent carotid artery disease or keep it from getting worse:
Don't smoke. Within a few years of quitting, a former smoker's risk of stroke is like a nonsmoker's.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases other risk factors, such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and sleep apnea.
Eat a healthy diet. Focus on fruits and vegetables, whole grains and fish, nuts and legumes. Limit cholesterol and fat, especially saturated and trans fats.
Limit salt. Too much salt can increase blood pressure in some people. Experts recommend that healthy adults eat less than 1,500 milligrams of salt a day.
Exercise regularly. Exercise can lower blood pressure, increase high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, the "good" cholesterol — and improve the overall health of your blood vessels and heart. It also helps you lose weight, control diabetes and reduce stress.
Limit or avoid alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Control illnesses. Managing conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure helps protect arteries.
Condition name:Carpal tunnel syndrome
Overview of Carpal tunnel syndrome:
Carpal tunnel syndrome is one of the most common hand conditions. It is caused by pressure on the median nerve in the carpal tunnel of the wrist. The carpal tunnel is a narrow passageway surrounded by bones and ligaments on the palm side of the hand. When the median nerve is compressed, symptoms can include numbness, tingling and weakness in the thumb and fingers.
Wrist anatomy, health conditions and possibly repetitive hand motions can contribute to carpal tunnel syndrome.
Proper treatment usually relieves the tingling and numbness and restores hand function.
Home Remedies for Carpal tunnel syndrome:
These steps may provide temporary symptom relief:
Take short, frequent breaks from repetitive activities involving the use of the hands.
Lose weight if you are overweight or obese.
Rotate the wrists and stretch the palms and fingers.
Take a pain reliever, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Wear a snug, not tight, wrist splint at night. You can buy these without a prescription at most drugstores or pharmacies.
Do not sleep on the hands.
If pain, numbness or weakness persists, see your healthcare professional.
More Information
Carpal tunnel syndrome care at Mayo Clinic
Carpal tunnel exercises: Can they relieve symptoms?
Symptoms for Carpal tunnel syndrome :
Symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome usually start gradually and include:
Tingling and numbness. Tingling and numbness may occur in the fingers or hand. Usually the thumb, index, middle and ring fingers are affected, but not the little finger. You might have a feeling like an electric shock in these fingers. These symptoms often occur while holding a steering wheel, phone or newspaper, or they may wake you from sleep.
The sensation also can travel from the wrist up the arm.
Many people "shake out" their hands to try to relieve their symptoms. The numb feeling may become constant over time.
Weakness. People with carpal tunnel syndrome may experience weakness in the hand and drop objects. This may be due to numbness or to weakness of the thumb's pinching muscles, which also are controlled by the median nerve.
Causes for Carpal tunnel syndrome :
Carpal tunnel syndrome is caused by pressure on the median nerve.
The median nerve runs from the forearm through a passageway in the wrist to the hand, known as the carpal tunnel. The median nerve provides sensation to the palm side of the thumb and all of the fingers except the little finger. This nerve also provides signals to move the muscles around the base of the thumb. This movement is known as motor function.
Anything that squeezes or irritates the median nerve in the carpal tunnel space may lead to carpal tunnel syndrome. A wrist fracture can narrow the carpal tunnel and irritate the nerve. This also may occur due to swelling and inflammation caused by rheumatoid arthritis or other diseases.
Many times, there is no single cause of carpal tunnel syndrome. Or the cause may not be known. It may be that a combination of risk factors contributes to the development of the condition.
Risk Factors for Carpal tunnel syndrome:
Several factors have been linked with carpal tunnel syndrome. Although they may not directly cause carpal tunnel syndrome, they may increase the risk of irritation or damage to the median nerve. These include:
Anatomical factors. A wrist fracture or dislocation can alter the space within the carpal tunnel. Arthritis that causes changes to the small bones in the wrist can affect the carpal tunnel. These changes can put pressure on the median nerve.
People who have smaller carpal tunnels may be more likely to have carpal tunnel syndrome.
Sex assigned at birth. Carpal tunnel syndrome is generally more common in women. This may be because the carpal tunnel area is relatively smaller in women than in men. Or it may be due to the effect of hormones on the lining of the tendons in the carpal tunnel.
Women who have carpal tunnel syndrome also may have smaller carpal tunnels than do women who don't have the condition.
Nerve-damaging conditions. Some chronic illnesses, such as diabetes, increase the risk of nerve damage, including damage to the median nerve.
Inflammatory conditions. Rheumatoid arthritis, gout and other conditions that cause swelling, known as inflammation, can affect the lining around the tendons in the wrist. This can put pressure on the median nerve.
Medicines. Some studies have shown a link between carpal tunnel syndrome and anastrozole (Arimidex), a medicine used to treat breast cancer.
Obesity. Being obese is a risk factor for carpal tunnel syndrome.
Body fluid changes. Fluid retention may increase the pressure within the carpal tunnel, irritating the median nerve. This is common during pregnancy and menopause. Carpal tunnel syndrome that happens with pregnancy generally gets better on its own after pregnancy.
Other medical conditions. Certain conditions, such as thyroid disorders, kidney failure and lymphedema, may increase the chances of getting carpal tunnel syndrome.
Workplace factors. Working with vibrating tools or on an assembly line that requires repeated movements that flex the wrist may create pressure on the median nerve. Such work also may worsen existing nerve damage. Pressure on the nerve can be worse if the work is done in a cold environment.
However, the scientific evidence is conflicting and these factors haven't been established as direct causes of carpal tunnel syndrome.
Several studies have evaluated whether there is a link between computer use and carpal tunnel syndrome. Some evidence suggests that mouse use, but not the use of a keyboard, may be related to carpal tunnel syndrome. There has not been enough quality and consistent evidence to support extensive computer use as a risk factor for carpal tunnel syndrome. However, computer use may cause a different form of hand pain.
There are no Complications available for Carpal tunnel syndrome in the knowledge basePreventions for Carpal tunnel syndrome
There are no proven strategies to prevent carpal tunnel syndrome, but you can lessen stress on the hands and wrists with these methods:
Reduce your force and relax your grip. If your work involves a cash register or keyboard, for instance, hit the keys softly.
Take short, frequent breaks. Gently stretch and bend your hands and wrists periodically. Alternate tasks when possible. This is especially important if you use equipment that vibrates or that requires you to exert a great amount of force. Taking a break for even a few minutes each hour can make a difference.
Watch your form. Do not bend your wrist all the way up or down when using a keyboard. A relaxed middle position with the wrists parallel to the floor is best. Keep your keyboard at elbow height or slightly lower.
Improve your posture. The wrong posture can occur when you adjust your body to view a computer screen rather than adjusting the screen height and distance to a correct posture. The wrong posture rolls shoulders forward, shortens the neck and shoulder muscles, and compresses nerves in the neck. This can cause neck pain and also may bother the hands and arms.
Change your computer mouse. Make sure that your computer mouse is comfortable to use and doesn't strain your wrist.
Keep your hands warm. You're more likely to develop hand pain and stiffness if you work in a cold environment. If you can't control the temperature at work, put on fingerless gloves that keep the hands and wrists warm.
Condition name:Castleman disease
Overview of Castleman disease:
Castleman disease is a group of rare disorders that involves lymph nodes that get bigger, called enlarged lymph nodes, and a wide range of symptoms. The most common form of the disorder involves a single enlarged lymph node. This lymph node is usually in the chest or neck, but it can occur in other areas of the body as well. This form of the disorder is called unicentric Castleman disease (UCD).
Multicentric Castleman disease (MCD) involves multiple regions of enlarged lymph nodes, inflammatory symptoms and problems with organ function. There are three types of MCD:
HHV-8-associated MCD. This type is linked to human herpes virus type 8, called HHV-8, and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Idiopathic MCD. The cause of this type is unknown. This also is called HHV-8-negative MCD.
The most serious form of this type of MCD is known as iMCD-TAFRO. This condition gets its name from the symptoms it causes.
POEMS-associated MCD. This type is linked to another condition called POEMS syndrome. POEMS syndrome is a rare blood disorder that damages nerves and affects other parts of the body.
Sometimes, people may have 2-3 enlarged lymph nodes and mild symptoms that do not meet the diagnostic criteria for MCD. These people may have another disease, or they may have the recently described subtype of Castleman disease called oligocentric Castleman disease. This subtype is rare.
Treatment and outlook vary depending on the type of Castleman disease you have. Unicentric Castleman disease, which is the type that involves only one enlarged lymph node, can usually be successfully treated with surgery.
The best treatment for oligocentric Castleman disease, which involves a few enlarged lymph nodes and has limited symptoms, is not known but is thought to be similar to the treatment for unicentric Castleman disease.
While not all people with MCD respond to the first treatment, there are medicines that work to treat HHV-8-associated MCD and idiopathic MCD.
There are no home remedies available for Castleman disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Castleman disease :
Many people with unicentric Castleman disease don't notice any signs or symptoms. The enlarged lymph node may be found during a physical exam or an imaging test for a different problem.
Some people with unicentric Castleman disease might have signs and symptoms that are more often seen in multicentric Castleman disease. These may include:
Causes for Castleman disease :
It's not clear what causes unicentric Castleman disease or idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease (MCD). However, HHV-8-positive MCD is known to occur in people who don't have typical function in their immune systems because of HIV or other causes.
Risk Factors for Castleman disease:
Castleman disease can affect people of any age or gender. People usually are diagnosed with Castleman disease during midlife, but it can happen at any age, including during childhood.
There are no known risk factors for unicentric Castleman disease or idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease. Infection with HIV or having a condition that decreases how well the immune system works raises the risk of having HHV-8-positive multicentric Castleman disease.
Complications for Castleman disease:
People with unicentric Castleman disease (UCD) usually do well once the affected lymph node is removed, and life expectancy is usually not changed. But they are at increased risk of developing a rare autoimmune condition called paraneoplastic pemphigus. This condition can be life-threatening. Paraneoplastic pemphigus causes blisters in the mouth and on the skin that are often misdiagnosed. Though the risk of developing paraneoplastic pemphigus is low, being checked for this condition is important if you have UCD.
Idiopathic multicentric Castleman disease can rapidly get worse to involve life-threatening problems with organ function. This requires critical care with a machine that helps with breathing, called a ventilator, and treatments that help with organs function, such as dialysis and transfusions.
HHV-8-positive multicentric Castleman disease may involve life-threatening infections and organ failure. People who also have HIV/AIDS generally have worse outcomes.
There are no preventive measures available for Castleman disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cataracts
Overview of Cataracts:
A cataract is a clouding of the lens of the eye, which is typically clear. For people who have cataracts, seeing through cloudy lenses is like looking through a frosty or fogged-up window. Clouded vision caused by cataracts can make it more difficult to read, drive a car at night or see the expression on a friend's face.
Most cataracts develop slowly and don't disturb eyesight early on. But with time, cataracts will eventually affect vision.
At first, stronger lighting and eyeglasses can help deal with cataracts. But if impaired vision affects usual activities, cataract surgery might be needed. Fortunately, cataract surgery is generally a safe, effective procedure.
Home Remedies for Cataracts:
To deal with symptoms of cataracts until you decide to have surgery, try to:
Make sure your prescription for your eyeglasses or contact lenses is up to date.
Use a magnifying glass to read if you need more help reading.
Improve the lighting in your home with more or brighter lamps.
Wear sunglasses or a broad-brimmed hat to reduce glare during the day.
Limit driving at night.
Self-care measures may help for a while, but your vision may get worse as the cataract grows. When vision loss starts to affect your everyday activities, consider cataract surgery.
Symptoms for Cataracts :
Symptoms of cataracts include:
Clouded, blurred or dim vision.
Trouble seeing at night.
Sensitivity to light and glare.
Need for brighter light for reading and other activities.
Seeing "halos" around lights.
Frequent changes in eyeglass or contact lens prescription.
Fading or yellowing of colors.
Double vision in one eye.
At first, the cloudiness in your vision caused by a cataract may affect only a small part of the eye's lens. You may not notice any vision loss. As the cataract grows larger, it clouds more of your lens. More clouding changes the light passing through the lens. This may lead to symptoms you notice more.
Causes for Cataracts :
Most cataracts develop when aging or injury changes the tissue that makes up the eye's lens. Proteins and fibers in the lens begin to break down. This causes vision to become hazy or cloudy.
Some disorders passed down from parents that cause other health problems can increase your risk of cataracts. Cataracts also can be caused by other eye conditions, past eye surgery or medical conditions such as diabetes. Long-term use of steroid medicines also may cause cataracts to develop.
Risk Factors for Cataracts:
Factors that increase your risk of cataracts include:
Increasing age.
Diabetes.
Getting too much sunlight.
Smoking.
Obesity.
Family history of cataracts.
Previous eye injury or inflammation.
Previous eye surgery.
Prolonged use of corticosteroid medicines.
Drinking excessive amounts of alcohol.
There are no Complications available for Cataracts in the knowledge basePreventions for Cataracts
No studies have proved how to prevent or slow the growth of cataracts. But health care professionals think several strategies may be helpful, including:
Regular eye exams. Eye exams can help detect cataracts and other eye problems at their earliest stages. Ask your health care team how often you should have an eye examination.
Do not smoke. Ask a member of your health care team how to stop smoking. Medicines, counseling and other strategies are available to help you.
Manage other health problems. Follow your treatment plan if you have diabetes or other medical conditions that can increase your risk of cataracts.
Choose a healthy diet that includes plenty of fruits and vegetables. Adding fruits and vegetables to your diet ensures that you're getting many vitamins and nutrients. Fruits and vegetables have antioxidants. Antioxidants help maintain the health of your eyes.
Studies haven't proved that antioxidants in pill form can prevent cataracts. But a large population study recently showed that a healthy diet rich in vitamins and minerals reduced the risk of developing cataracts. Fruits and vegetables have many proven health benefits. Eating them is a safe way to get enough minerals and vitamins in your diet.
Wear sunglasses. Ultraviolet light from the sun may cause cataracts. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet B rays when you're outdoors.
Reduce alcohol use. Drinking too much alcohol can increase the risk of cataracts.
Condition name:Cavernous malformations
Overview of Cavernous malformations:
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are groups of tightly packed, irregular small blood vessels with thin walls. They may be present in the brain or spinal cord. The vessels contain slow-moving blood that's usually clotted. CCMs look like small mulberries. In some people, CCMs can cause blood to leak in the brain or spinal cord.
CCMs vary in size. Often they are less than half an inch (1 centimeter). Most CCMs are sporadic. This means the CCM occurs as a single cavernous malformation and there isn't a family history. But about 20% of CCMs affect people of the same family. These are known as familial CCMs. Familial CCMs are related to a gene change passed down through families. People with familial CCMs usually have multiple cavernous malformations.
A CCM is one of several types of brain vascular malformations that contain irregular blood vessels. Other types of vascular malformations include:
Arteriovenous malformation (AVM).
Dural arteriovenous fistula.
Developmental venous anomaly (DVA).
Capillary telangiectasia.
For people who have the sporadic form, it's common to have both a DVA and a CCM.
CCMs may leak blood and lead to bleeding in the brain or spinal cord, known as a hemorrhage. Brain hemorrhages can cause many symptoms, such as seizures.
Depending on the location, CCMs also can cause stroke-like symptoms such as trouble with movement or feeling in the legs and sometimes the arms. CCMs also may cause bowel and bladder symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Cavernous malformations in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cavernous malformations :
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) may not cause symptoms. Sometimes when the CCM occurs on the outer surface of the brain, it can cause seizures.
And CCMs found in other areas can have a variety of symptoms. These include CCMs in the spinal cord, the brainstem linking the spinal cord and brain, and the basal ganglia in the inner brain. For example, bleeding in the spinal cord may cause bowel and bladder symptoms or trouble with movement or feeling in the legs or arms.
Generally, symptoms of CCMs may include:
Seizures.
Bad headaches.
Weakness in the arms or legs.
Numbness.
Trouble speaking.
Poor memory and attention.
Trouble balancing and walking.
Vision changes, such as double vision.
Symptoms can get worse over time with repeated bleeding. Bleeding can happen again soon after the first bleed or much later. In some people, a repeat bleed may never occur.
Causes for Cavernous malformations :
Most cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) are known as the "sporadic form." They occur as a single malformation without any family history. The sporadic form often has an associated developmental venous anomaly (DVA), which is an irregular vein with a witch's broom appearance.
However, about 20% of people with a CCM have a genetic form. This form is passed down in families, known as familial cavernous malformation syndrome. People with this form may have family members with CCMs, most often with more than one malformation. A diagnosis can be confirmed by a genetic test that requires a blood or saliva sample. Genetic testing is often recommended for people who have:
MRI evidence of multiple CCMs without a DVA.
A family history of CCMs.
Radiation to the brain or spinal cord also may result in CCMs within 2 to 20 years afterward. Other rare syndromes may be associated with CCM.
Risk Factors for Cavernous malformations:
Most cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) have no clear cause. But the form that's passed down through families can cause multiple CCMs, both to start with and over time.
To date, research has identified three genetic changes responsible for cavernous malformations passed down through families. Almost all familial cases of cavernous malformations have been traced through those genetic changes.
Familial CCMs are passed down in families through a change in one of these genes:
KRIT1, also called CCM1.
CCM2.
PDCD10, also called CCM3.
These genes are responsible for affecting the leakiness of blood vessels and the proteins that keep the blood vessel cells together.
Complications for Cavernous malformations:
The most serious complications of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCMs) stem from repeated bleeding, known as hemorrhages. CCMs that bleed over and over again may cause a hemorrhagic stroke and lead to damage in the nervous system.
Bleeding is more likely to return in people with prior hemorrhages. Bleeding also is more likely to happen again with CCMs located in the brainstem.
There are no preventive measures available for Cavernous malformations in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cavities and tooth decay
Overview of Cavities and tooth decay:
Cavities are areas in the hard surface of your teeth that are damaged. These areas of tooth decay become tiny openings or holes that can lead to a serious toothache, infection and tooth loss. There are several causes of cavities, including bacteria in your mouth, snacking a lot, sipping sugary drinks and not cleaning your teeth well.
Cavities and tooth decay are among the world's most common health problems. They're especially common in children, teenagers and older adults. But anyone who has teeth can get cavities, including babies.
If cavities aren't treated, they get larger and affect deeper layers of your teeth. Regular dental visits and good brushing and flossing habits are the best ways to protect your teeth from cavities.
There are no home remedies available for Cavities and tooth decay in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cavities and tooth decay :
The symptoms of cavities vary, depending on how many you have and where they're located. When a cavity is just beginning, you may not have any symptoms. As the decay gets larger, it may cause symptoms such as:
Toothache and other pain.
Tooth sensitivity.
Mild to sharp pain when eating or drinking something sweet, hot or cold.
Holes or pits in your teeth that you can see.
Brown, black or white staining on any surface of a tooth.
Pain when you bite down.
Causes for Cavities and tooth decay :
Tooth decay causes cavities. This is a process that occurs over time.
Here's how tooth decay happens:
Plaque forms. Dental plaque is a clear sticky film that coats your teeth. It's due to eating a lot of sugars and starches and not cleaning your teeth well. When you don't clean sugars and starches off your teeth, bacteria quickly begin feeding on them and forming plaque. Plaque that stays on your teeth can harden under or above your gumline into tartar. Tartar makes plaque harder to remove and creates a shield for bacteria. A dental professional needs to remove this plaque.
Plaque attacks. The acids from bacteria remove minerals in your tooth's hard, outer enamel. This erosion causes tiny openings or holes in the enamel — the first stage of cavities. Once areas of enamel are worn away, the bacteria and acid can reach the next layer of your teeth, called dentin. This layer is softer than enamel and less resistant to acid, causing your teeth to be more sensitive.
Damage continues. As tooth decay happens, the bacteria and acid move through your teeth to the inner tooth material (pulp) that contains nerves and blood vessels. The pulp becomes swollen and irritated from the bacteria. Because there is no place for the swelling to expand inside of a tooth, the nerve becomes pressed, causing pain. Sometimes pain and damage can spread outside of the tooth root to the bone, causing bone loss around the tooth and even reaching nearby teeth.
Risk Factors for Cavities and tooth decay:
Anyone who has teeth can get cavities, but these factors raise the risk:
Tooth location. Decay most often occurs in your back teeth — your molars and premolars. These teeth have lots of grooves, pits and crannies, and multiple roots that can collect food particles. That's why they're harder to keep clean than your smoother, easy-to-reach front teeth.
Certain foods and drinks. Foods that cling to your teeth for a long time are more likely to cause decay than foods that are easily washed away by saliva. These foods include milk, ice cream, honey, sugar, soda, dried fruit, cake, cookies, hard candy and mints, dry cereal, and chips.
Snacking or sipping a lot. When you snack or sip sugary drinks a lot, you give mouth bacteria more fuel to make acids that attack your teeth and wear them down. And sipping soda or other acidic drinks throughout the day helps create a continual acid bath over your teeth.
Bedtime baby feeding. When babies are given bedtime bottles filled with milk, formula, juice or other liquids that have sugar, these beverages remain on their teeth for hours while they sleep. This feeds bacteria that can cause decay. This damage often is called baby bottle tooth decay. Similar damage can occur when toddlers wander around drinking from a sippy cup filled with these beverages.
Not brushing your teeth well. If you don't clean your teeth soon after eating and drinking, plaque forms quickly, and the first stages of decay and gingivitis can begin.
Not getting enough fluoride. Fluoride, a naturally occurring mineral, helps prevent cavities. It also can reverse the earliest stages of tooth damage. Because of its benefits for teeth, fluoride is added to many public water supplies. It's also a common ingredient in toothpaste and mouth rinses. But bottled water usually does not contain fluoride.
Younger or older age. In the U.S., cavities are common in very young children and teenagers. Older adults also are at higher risk. Over time, teeth can wear down and gums may recede, making teeth more likely to decay. Older adults also may use more medicines that reduce saliva flow, raising the risk of tooth decay.
Dry mouth. Dry mouth is caused by a lack of saliva. Saliva helps prevent tooth decay by washing away food and plaque from your teeth. Substances found in saliva also help counter the acid produced by bacteria. Certain medicines, some medical conditions, radiation to your head or neck, or certain chemotherapy drugs can raise your risk of cavities by reducing saliva production.
Worn fillings or dental devices. Over the years, dental fillings can weaken, begin to break down or get rough edges. This allows plaque to build up more easily and makes it harder to remove. Dental devices can stop fitting well, allowing decay to begin under them.
Heartburn. Heartburn, a common symptom of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), can cause stomach acid to flow into your mouth. This is called reflux. It can wear away the enamel of your teeth and cause a lot of damage. This exposes more of the dentin to bacteria, creating tooth decay. Your dentist may recommend that you talk with your healthcare professional to see if GERD is causing your enamel loss.
Eating disorders. Anorexia and bulimia can lead to a lot of tooth erosion and cavities. Stomach acid from repeated vomiting, called purging, washes over the teeth and begins eating away at the enamel. Eating disorders also can get in the way of saliva production.
Complications for Cavities and tooth decay:
Cavities and tooth decay are so common that you may not take them seriously. And you may think that it doesn't matter if children get cavities in their baby teeth. But cavities and tooth decay can have serious and lasting complications, even for children who don't have their permanent teeth yet.
Complications of cavities may include:
Pain.
Abscess — a bacterial infection that causes a pocket of pus to form in a tooth.
Swelling or pus around a tooth.
Damage or broken teeth.
Chewing problems.
Positioning shifts of teeth after tooth loss.
When cavities and decay become serious, you may have:
Pain that makes it hard to live your daily life.
Weight loss or nutrition problems because it's painful or difficult to eat or chew.
Tooth loss, which may affect your appearance, confidence and self-esteem.
In rare cases, a tooth abscess, which can lead to more-serious or even life-threatening infections.
Preventions for Cavities and tooth decay
Good oral and dental hygiene can help keep you from getting cavities. Here are some tips to help prevent cavities. Ask your dentist which tips are best for you.
Brush with fluoride toothpaste after eating or drinking. Brush your teeth at least twice a day, and ideally after every meal, using toothpaste with fluoride. To clean between your teeth, floss or use an interdental cleaner. This cleaner helps reach areas where a toothbrush can't reach.
Rinse your mouth. If your dentist feels that you have a high risk of getting cavities, a mouth rinse with fluoride may be recommended.
Visit your dentist regularly. Get professional teeth cleanings and regular oral exams, which can help prevent problems or spot them early. Your dentist can recommend a schedule that's best for you.
Consider dental sealants. A sealant is a protective plastic coating applied to the chewing surface of back teeth. It seals off grooves and crannies that tend to collect food, protecting tooth enamel from plaque and acid. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends sealants for all school-age children. Sealants may last for several years before they need to be replaced, but they need to be checked regularly.
Drink some tap water. Most public water supplies have added fluoride, which can reduce tooth decay greatly. If you drink only bottled water that doesn't contain fluoride, you'll miss out on the benefits of fluoride.
Avoid snacking and sipping a lot. Whenever you eat or drink beverages other than water, you help your mouth bacteria create acids that can destroy tooth enamel. If you snack or drink throughout the day, your teeth are under constant attack.
Eat tooth-healthy foods. Some foods and beverages are better for your teeth than others. Avoid foods that get stuck in grooves and pits of your teeth for long periods, or brush soon after eating them. Foods such as fresh fruits and vegetables increase saliva flow, and unsweetened coffee, tea and sugar-free gum help wash away food particles.
Consider fluoride treatments. Your dentist may recommend periodic fluoride treatments, especially if you aren't getting enough fluoride through fluoridated drinking water and other sources. Your dentist also may recommend custom trays that fit over your teeth to apply prescription fluoride if your risk of tooth decay is very high.
Ask about antiseptic and disinfecting treatments. If tooth decay is likely — for example, because of a medical condition — your dentist may recommend special antiseptic and disinfecting mouth rinses like chlorhexidine or other treatments to cut down on harmful bacteria in your mouth. Unless your dentist tells you otherwise, mouth rinses, also called mouthwash, generally are not recommended for children younger than the age of 6 so they don't swallow too much of it.
Combined treatments. Chewing sugar-free gum along with prescription fluoride and an antibacterial rinse can help reduce the risk of cavities. But in some people, xylitol, which is often found in sugar-free gum or sugar-free candies, may cause gas or diarrhea if consumed in large amounts.
Condition name:Celiac disease
Overview of Celiac disease:
Celiac disease is an illness caused by an immune reaction to eating gluten. Gluten is a protein found in foods containing wheat, barley or rye.
If you have celiac disease, eating gluten triggers an immune response to the gluten protein in your small intestine. Over time, this reaction damages your small intestine's lining and prevents it from absorbing nutrients, a condition called malabsorption.
The intestinal damage often causes symptoms such as diarrhea, fatigue, weight loss, bloating or anemia. It also can lead to serious complications if it is not managed or treated. In children, malabsorption can affect growth and development in addition to gastrointestinal symptoms.
There's no definite cure for celiac disease. But for most people, following a strict gluten-free diet can help manage symptoms and help the intestines heal.
Home Remedies for Celiac disease:
If you've been diagnosed with celiac disease, you'll need to avoid all foods that contain gluten. Ask your health care team for a referral to a dietitian, who can help you plan a healthy gluten-free diet.
Read labels
Avoid packaged foods unless they're labeled as gluten-free or have no gluten-containing ingredients, including emulsifiers and stabilizers that can contain gluten. In addition to cereals, pastas and baked goods, other packaged foods that can contain gluten include:
Beers, lagers, ales and malt vinegars.
Candies.
Gravies.
Imitation meats or seafood.
Processed luncheon meats.
Rice mixes.
Salad dressings and sauces, including soy sauce.
Seasoned snack foods, such as tortilla and potato chips.
Seitan.
Self-basting poultry.
Soups.
Pure oats aren't harmful for most people with celiac disease, but oats can be contaminated by wheat during growing and processing. Ask your health care team if you can try eating small amounts of pure oat products.
Allowed foods
Many basic foods are allowed in a gluten-free diet, including:
Eggs.
Fresh meats, fish and poultry that aren't breaded, batter-coated or marinated.
Fruits.
Lentils.
Most dairy products, unless they make your symptoms worse.
Nuts.
Potatoes.
Vegetables.
Wine and distilled liquors, ciders and spirits.
Grains and starches allowed in a gluten-free diet include:
Amaranth.
Buckwheat.
Corn.
Cornmeal.
Gluten-free flours (rice, soy, corn, potato, bean).
Pure corn tortillas.
Quinoa.
Rice.
Tapioca.
Wild rice.
Symptoms for Celiac disease :
The symptoms of celiac disease can vary greatly. They also may be different in children and adults. Digestive symptoms for adults include:
Diarrhea.
Fatigue.
Weight loss.
Bloating and gas.
Abdominal pain.
Nausea and vomiting.
Constipation.
However, more than half the adults with celiac disease have symptoms that are not related to the digestive system, including:
Anemia, usually from iron deficiency due to decreased iron absorption.
Loss of bone density, called osteoporosis, or softening of bones, called osteomalacia.
Itchy, blistery skin rash, called dermatitis herpetiformis.
Mouth ulcers.
Headaches and fatigue.
Nervous system injury, including numbness and tingling in the feet and hands, possible problems with balance, and cognitive impairment.
Joint pain.
Reduced functioning of the spleen, known as hyposplenism.
Elevated liver enzymes.
Causes for Celiac disease :
Your genes, combined with eating foods with gluten and other factors, can contribute to celiac disease. However, the precise cause isn't known. Infant-feeding practices, gastrointestinal infections and gut bacteria may contribute, but these causes have not been proved. Sometimes celiac disease becomes active after surgery, pregnancy, childbirth, viral infection or severe emotional stress.
When the body's immune system overreacts to gluten in food, the reaction damages the tiny, hairlike projections, called villi, that line the small intestine. Villi absorb vitamins, minerals and other nutrients from the food you eat. If your villi are damaged, you can't get enough nutrients, no matter how much you eat.
Risk Factors for Celiac disease:
Celiac disease tends to be more common in people who have:
A family member with celiac disease or dermatitis herpetiformis.
Type 1 diabetes.
Down syndrome, William syndrome or Turner syndrome.
Autoimmune thyroid disease.
Microscopic colitis.
Addison's disease.
Complications for Celiac disease:
Celiac disease that is not treated can lead to:
Malnutrition. This occurs if your small intestine can't absorb enough nutrients. Malnutrition can lead to anemia and weight loss. In children, malnutrition can cause slow growth and short stature.
Bone weakening. In children, malabsorption of calcium and vitamin D can lead to a softening of the bone, called osteomalacia or rickets. In adults, it can lead to a loss of bone density, called osteopenia or osteoporosis.
Infertility and miscarriage. Malabsorption of calcium and vitamin D can contribute to reproductive issues.
Lactose intolerance. Damage to your small intestine might cause you abdominal pain and diarrhea after eating or drinking dairy products that contain lactose. Once your intestine has healed, you might be able to tolerate dairy products again.
Cancer. People with celiac disease who don't maintain a gluten-free diet have a greater risk of developing several forms of cancer, including intestinal lymphoma and small bowel cancer.
Nervous system conditions. Some people with celiac disease can develop conditions such as seizures or a disease of the nerves to the hands and feet, called peripheral neuropathy.
There are no preventive measures available for Celiac disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cellulite
Overview of Cellulite:
Cellulite is a very common, harmless skin condition that causes lumpy, dimpled flesh on the thighs, hips, buttocks and abdomen. The condition is most prevalent in women.
Many people try, with variable success, to improve the appearance of their skin through weight loss, exercise, massage and creams marketed as a solution to cellulite. Medically proven treatment options are available as well, though results aren't immediate or long lasting.
Home Remedies for Cellulite:
Self-care can help improve the look of your skin.
Medicated creams. Applying 0.3% retinol cream has been shown to improve the appearance of cellulite. Retinol helps thicken skin, which reduces the dimpling. Such products are applied once or twice a day. Any effect from a retinol cream won't be noticeable for six months or longer.
Weight loss. If you're carrying extra weight, losing pounds and toning muscles may help improve the look of dimpled skin.
Physical activity. Activities that tone muscles may help improve the appearance of dimpled skin. They also help with circulation and lymphatic drainage. Find one or more activities that you enjoy and can fit into your routine, such as yoga, Pilates, swimming, walking, biking, stair climbing and dancing.
Symptoms for Cellulite :
Cellulite looks like dimpled or bumpy skin. It's sometimes described as having a cottage cheese or orange peel texture.
You can see mild cellulite only if you pinch your skin in an area where you have cellulite, such as your thighs. Cellulite that is more severe makes the skin appear rumpled and bumpy with areas of peaks and valleys.
Cellulite is most common around the thighs and buttocks, but it can also be found on the breasts, lower abdomen and upper arms.
Causes for Cellulite :
Little is known about what causes cellulite. It involves fibrous connective cords that tether the skin to the underlying muscle, with the fat lying between. As fat cells accumulate, they push up against the skin, while the long, tough cords pull down. This creates an uneven surface or dimpling.
In addition, hormonal factors play a large role in the development of cellulite, and genetics determine skin structure, skin texture and body type. Other factors, such as weight and muscle tone affect whether you have cellulite, though even very fit people can have it.
Risk Factors for Cellulite:
Cellulite is much more common in women than in men. In fact, most women develop some cellulite after puberty. This is because women's fat is typically distributed in the thighs, hips and buttocks — common areas for cellulite. Cellulite is also more common with aging, when the skin loses elasticity. Weight gain can make cellulite more noticeable, but some lean people have cellulite, as well. It tends to run in families, so genetics might play the biggest role in whether you develop cellulite. An inactive lifestyle also can increase your chances of having cellulite, as can pregnancy.
There are no Complications available for Cellulite in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Cellulite in the knowledge baseCondition name:Central nervous system vascular malformations
Overview of Central nervous system vascular malformations:
Central nervous system vascular malformations are rare issues with the blood vessels in the brain or spinal cord and their coverings, called membranes.
There are several types of central nervous system vascular malformations, including:
Arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). These are unusual tangles of blood vessels that connect arteries and veins. AVM can be anywhere in the body. Most often they occur in or near the brain or the spine. This type poses the highest risk of brain bleeds and other complications.
Capillary telangiectasias. These are small blood vessels, called capillaries, that are wider than usual.
Cavernous malformations. These are blood vessels in the brain or spinal cord that are formed unusually. They look like mulberries or popcorn.
Dural arteriovenous fistulas. These are unusual links between arteries and the tough covering over the brain or spinal cord, called dura, and a draining vein.
Venous malformations. These are unusually enlarged veins in the brain or spinal cord. They also are called developmental venous anomalies.
There are no home remedies available for Central nervous system vascular malformations in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Central nervous system vascular malformations :
Symptoms depend on the type of central nervous system vascular malformation and where it's found. Some vascular malformations have no symptoms. They're found on imaging for something else.
Symptoms for some central nervous system vascular malformations can include:
Bleeding.
Seizures.
Headache.
Brain and nervous system problems, called neurological deficits, that get worse over time. Neurological deficits can affect speech, vision, balance, memory and other abilities.
Causes for Central nervous system vascular malformations :
The cause of central nervous system vascular malformations is unclear. Some are present at birth, called congenital. Others come later.
Some genetic conditions can increase the risk of having vascular malformation. Injury to the central nervous system might be another cause.
There are no Risk Factors available for Central nervous system vascular malformations in the knowledge baseComplications for Central nervous system vascular malformations:
Central nervous system vascular malformations can damage the brain or spinal cord. Damage can come from bleeding, called hemorrhage, into nearby tissues. Vascular malformations also can block oxygen flow to tissues and put pressure on parts of the brain or spinal cord.
Complications can include:
Stroke.
Brain damage from a burst blood vessel.
Death.
Learning and behavior problems in children.
Once bleeding occurs, there's a greater risk of having another bleed. For someone who has a vascular malformation, being pregnant might increase the risk of bleeding.
There are no preventive measures available for Central nervous system vascular malformations in the knowledge baseCondition name:Central sleep apnea
Overview of Central sleep apnea:
Central sleep apnea is a disorder in which breathing repeatedly stops and starts during sleep.
Central sleep apnea occurs because the brain doesn't send proper signals to the muscles that control breathing. This condition is different from obstructive sleep apnea, in which breathing stops because the throat muscles relax and block the airway. Central sleep apnea is less common than obstructive sleep apnea.
Central sleep apnea can result from other conditions, such as heart failure and stroke. Another possible cause is sleeping at a high altitude.
Treatments for central sleep apnea might involve managing existing conditions, using a device to assist breathing or using supplemental oxygen.
There are no home remedies available for Central sleep apnea in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Central sleep apnea :
Common symptoms of central sleep apnea include:
Observed episodes of not breathing during sleep.
Sudden awakenings with shortness of breath.
Not being able to stay asleep, known as insomnia.
Excessive daytime sleepiness, known as hypersomnia.
Trouble focusing.
Mood changes.
Morning headaches.
Snoring.
Although snoring suggests some degree of a blocked airway, snoring also can occur in people with central sleep apnea. However, snoring may not be as prominent with central sleep apnea as it is with obstructive sleep apnea.
Causes for Central sleep apnea :
Central sleep apnea occurs when your brain doesn't transmit signals to your breathing muscles.
The brainstem links the brain to the spinal cord. It controls many functions, including heart rate and breathing. Central sleep apnea can be caused by a number of conditions that affect the ability of the brainstem to control breathing.
The cause varies with the type of central sleep apnea you have. Types include:
Cheyne-Stokes breathing. This type of central sleep apnea is most commonly associated with congestive heart failure or stroke.
During Cheyne-Stokes breathing, breathing effort and airflow gradually rise and then lessen. During the weakest breathing effort, a total lack of airflow can occur.
Drug-induced apnea. Taking certain medicines such as opioids can cause breathing to become irregular or stop completely for a short time. These medicines can be taken by mouth or by shot, also called injection. They include morphine (MS Contin, Mitigo, others), oxycodone (Roxicodone, Oxycontin, others) and codeine.
High-altitude periodic breathing. A Cheyne-Stokes breathing pattern can occur if you're at a very high altitude. The change in oxygen at a high altitude can cause fast breathing, known as hyperventilation, followed by taking in too little air.
Treatment-emergent central sleep apnea. Some people with obstructive sleep apnea develop central sleep apnea while using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) for treatment. This condition is known as treatment-emergent central sleep apnea. It is a combination of obstructive and central sleep apneas.
Medical condition-induced central sleep apnea. Several medical conditions, including end-stage kidney disease and stroke, may lead to central sleep apnea. This type of sleep apnea doesn't involve Cheyne-Stokes breathing.
Primary central sleep apnea, also known as idiopathic sleep apnea. The cause of this uncommon type of central sleep apnea is not known.
Risk Factors for Central sleep apnea:
Certain factors put you at increased risk of central sleep apnea:
Sex. Males are more likely to develop central sleep apnea than are females.
Age. Central sleep apnea is more common among older adults, especially those older than age 60. This could be because people older than 60 are likely to have other medical conditions or sleep patterns that are linked to central sleep apnea.
Heart disorders. Heart problems put people at higher risk of central sleep apnea. An irregular heartbeat, known as atrial fibrillation, can increase the risk. Having heart muscles that don't pump enough blood for the body's needs, known as congestive heart failure, also can raise the risk.
Stroke, brain tumor or a structural problem with the brainstem. These brain conditions can affect the brain's ability to regulate breathing.
High altitude. Sleeping at an altitude higher than you're used to may increase your risk of sleep apnea. High-altitude sleep apnea resolves a few weeks after returning to a lower altitude.
Opioid use. Opioid medicines may increase the risk of central sleep apnea.
CPAP. Some people with obstructive sleep apnea develop central sleep apnea while using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). This condition is known as treatment-emergent central sleep apnea. It is a combination of obstructive and central sleep apneas.
For some people, complex sleep apnea goes away with continued use of their CPAP device. Other people may be treated with a different kind of positive airway pressure therapy.
Complications for Central sleep apnea:
Central sleep apnea is a serious medical condition. Some complications include:
Fatigue. The repeated awakenings associated with sleep apnea make restorative sleep impossible. People with central sleep apnea often have severe fatigue, daytime drowsiness and irritability.
You might have trouble focusing. You also may find yourself falling asleep at work, while watching television or even while driving.
Cardiovascular problems. Sudden drops in blood oxygen levels that occur during central sleep apnea can affect heart health.
If you have heart disease, repeated episodes of low blood oxygen increase the risk of irregular heart rhythms.
There are no preventive measures available for Central sleep apnea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cerebral palsy
Overview of Cerebral palsy:
Cerebral palsy is a group of conditions that affect movement and posture. It's caused by damage that occurs to the developing brain, most often before birth.
Symptoms appear during infancy or preschool years and vary from very mild to serious. Children with cerebral palsy may have exaggerated reflexes. The arms, legs and trunk may appear floppy. Or they may have stiff muscles, known as spasticity. Symptoms also can include irregular posture, movements that can't be controlled, a walk that's not steady or some combination of these.
Cerebral palsy may make it hard to swallow. It also can cause eye muscle imbalance, in which the eyes don't focus on the same object. People with the condition might have reduced range of motion in their joints due to muscle stiffness.
The cause of cerebral palsy and its effect on function vary from person to person. Some people with cerebral palsy can walk while others need assistance. Some people have intellectual disabilities, but others do not. Epilepsy, blindness or deafness also might affect some people with cerebral palsy. There is no cure, but treatments can help improve function. The symptoms of cerebral palsy may vary during the child's development, but the condition doesn't get worse. The condition generally stays the same over time.
There are no home remedies available for Cerebral palsy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cerebral palsy :
Symptoms of cerebral palsy can vary greatly. In some people, cerebral palsy affects the whole body. In other people, symptoms might only affect one or two limbs or one side of the body. General symptoms include trouble with movement and coordination, speech and eating, development, and other issues.
Causes for Cerebral palsy :
Cerebral palsy is caused by irregular brain development or damage to the developing brain. This usually happens before a child is born, but it can occur at birth or in early infancy. Often the cause isn't known. Many factors can lead to changes in brain development. Some include:
Gene changes that result in genetic conditions or differences in brain development.
Maternal infections that affect an unborn baby.
Stroke, which interrupts blood supply to the developing brain.
Bleeding into the brain in the womb or as a newborn.
Infant infections that cause swelling in or around the brain.
Traumatic head injury to an infant, such as from a motor vehicle accident, fall or physical trauma.
Lack of oxygen to the brain related to a hard labor or delivery, although this cause is less common than previously thought.
Risk Factors for Cerebral palsy:
A number of factors are associated with an increased risk of cerebral palsy.
Complications for Cerebral palsy:
Muscle weakness, muscle spasticity and trouble with coordination can contribute to complications in childhood or in adulthood, including:
Contracture. Contracture is muscle tissue shortening due to severe muscle tightening. This can be the result of spasticity. Contracture can slow bone growth, cause bones to bend, and result in joint changes, dislocation or partial dislocation. These can include a dislocated hip, a curved spine or other bone changes.
Malnutrition. Trouble with swallowing and feeding can make it hard to get enough nutrition, particularly for an infant. This can impair growth and weaken bones. Some children or adults need a feeding tube to get enough nutrition.
Mental health conditions. People with cerebral palsy might have mental health conditions, such as depression. Social isolation and the challenges of coping with disabilities can contribute to depression. Behavior issues also can occur.
Heart and lung disease. People with cerebral palsy may develop heart disease, lung disease and breathing conditions. Trouble swallowing can result in respiratory issues, such as aspiration pneumonia. Aspiration pneumonia happens when a child inhales food, drink, saliva or vomit into the lungs.
Osteoarthritis. Pressure on joints or misalignment of joints from muscle spasticity may lead to this painful bone disease.
Osteoporosis. Fractures due to low bone density can result from lack of mobility, poor nutrition and anti-seizure medicines.
Other complications. These can include sleep conditions, chronic pain, skin breakdown, intestinal issues and issues with oral health.
Preventions for Cerebral palsy
Often cerebral palsy can't be prevented, but you can reduce risks. If you're pregnant or planning to become pregnant, take these steps to minimize pregnancy complications:
Make sure you're vaccinated. Getting vaccinated against diseases such as rubella might prevent an infection. It's best to make sure you're fully vaccinated before getting pregnant.
Take care of yourself. The healthier you are heading into a pregnancy, the less likely you'll be to develop an infection that results in cerebral palsy.
Seek early and continuous prenatal care. See your health care professional regularly during pregnancy. Proper prenatal care can reduce health risks to you and your unborn baby. Seeing your health care professional regularly can help prevent premature birth, low birth weight and infections.
Avoid alcohol, tobacco and illegal drugs. These have been linked to cerebral palsy risk.
Rarely, cerebral palsy can be caused by brain damage that occurs in childhood. Practice good general safety. Prevent head injuries by providing your child with a car seat, bicycle helmet, safety rails on the bed and appropriate supervision.
Condition name:Cervical cancer
Overview of Cervical cancer:
Cervical cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the cervix. The cervix is the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina.
Various strains of the human papillomavirus, also called HPV, play a role in causing most cervical cancers. HPV is a common infection that's passed through sexual contact. When exposed to HPV, the body's immune system typically prevents the virus from doing harm. In a small percentage of people, however, the virus survives for years. This contributes to the process that causes some cervical cells to become cancer cells.
You can reduce your risk of developing cervical cancer by having screening tests and receiving a vaccine that protects against HPV infection.
When cervical cancer happens, it's often first treated with surgery to remove the cancer. Other treatments may include medicines to kill the cancer cells. Options might include chemotherapy and targeted therapy medicines. Radiation therapy with powerful energy beams also may be used. Sometimes treatment combines radiation with low-dose chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Cervical cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cervical cancer :
When it starts, cervical cancer might not cause symptoms. As it grows, cervical cancer might cause signs and symptoms, such as:
Vaginal bleeding after intercourse, between periods or after menopause.
Menstrual bleeding that is heavier and lasts longer than usual.
Watery, bloody vaginal discharge that may be heavy and have a foul odor.
Pelvic pain or pain during intercourse.
Causes for Cervical cancer :
Cervical cancer begins when healthy cells in the cervix develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This causes too many cells. The cells might form a mass called a tumor. The cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Most cervical cancers are caused by HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, the virus never causes problems. It usually goes away on its own. For some, though, the virus can cause changes in the cells that may lead to cancer.
Risk Factors for Cervical cancer:
Risk factors for cervical cancer include:
Smoking tobacco. Smoking increases the risk of cervical cancer. When HPV infections happen in people who smoke, the infections tend to last longer and are less likely to go away. HPV causes most cervical cancers.
Increasing number of sexual partners. The greater your number of sexual partners, and the greater your partner's number of sexual partners, the greater your chance of getting HPV.
Early sexual activity. Having sex at an early age increases your risk of HPV.
Other sexually transmitted infections. Having other sexually transmitted infections, also called STIs, increases the risk of HPV, which can lead to cervical cancer. Other STIs that increase the risk include herpes, chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis and HIV/AIDS.
A weakened immune system. You may be more likely to develop cervical cancer if your immune system is weakened by another health condition and you have HPV.
Exposure to miscarriage prevention medicine. If your parent took a medicine called diethylstilbestrol, also known as DES, while pregnant, your risk of cervical cancer might be increased. This medicine was used in the 1950s to prevent miscarriage. It's linked to a type of cervical cancer called clear cell adenocarcinoma.
There are no Complications available for Cervical cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Cervical cancer
To reduce your risk of cervical cancer:
Ask your doctor about the HPV vaccine. Receiving a vaccination to prevent HPV infection may reduce your risk of cervical cancer and other HPV-related cancers. Ask your health care team if an HPV vaccine is right for you.
Have routine Pap tests. Pap tests can detect precancerous conditions of the cervix. These conditions can be monitored or treated in order to prevent cervical cancer. Most medical organizations suggest beginning routine Pap tests at age 21 and repeating them every few years.
Practice safe sex. Reduce your risk of cervical cancer by taking measures to prevent sexually transmitted infections. This may include using a condom every time you have sex and limiting the number of sexual partners you have.
Don't smoke. If you don't smoke, don't start. If you do smoke, talk to a health care professional about ways to help you quit.
Condition name:Cervicitis
Overview of Cervicitis:
Cervicitis is an inflammation of the cervix, the lower, narrow end of the uterus that opens into the vagina.
Possible symptoms of cervicitis include bleeding between menstrual periods, pain with intercourse or during a pelvic exam, and abnormal vaginal discharge. However, it's also possible to have cervicitis and not experience any signs or symptoms.
Often, cervicitis results from a sexually transmitted infection, such as chlamydia or gonorrhea. Cervicitis can develop from noninfectious causes, too. Successful treatment of cervicitis involves treating the underlying cause of the inflammation.
There are no home remedies available for Cervicitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cervicitis :
Most often, cervicitis causes no signs and symptoms, and you may only learn you have the condition after a pelvic exam performed by your doctor for another reason. If you do have signs and symptoms, they may include:
Large amounts of unusual vaginal discharge
Frequent, painful urination
Pain during sex
Bleeding between menstrual periods
Vaginal bleeding after sex, not associated with a menstrual period
Causes for Cervicitis :
Possible causes of cervicitis include:
Sexually transmitted infections. Most often, the bacterial and viral infections that cause cervicitis are transmitted by sexual contact. Cervicitis can result from common sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including gonorrhea, chlamydia, trichomoniasis and genital herpes.
Allergic reactions. An allergy, either to contraceptive spermicides or to latex in condoms, may lead to cervicitis. A reaction to feminine hygiene products, such as douches or feminine deodorants, also can cause cervicitis.
Bacterial overgrowth. An overgrowth of some of the bacteria that are normally present in the vagina (bacterial vaginosis) can lead to cervicitis.
Risk Factors for Cervicitis:
You're at greater risk of cervicitis if you:
Engage in high-risk sexual behavior, such as unprotected sex, sex with multiple partners or sex with someone who engages in high-risk behaviors
Began having sexual intercourse at an early age
Have a history of sexually transmitted infections
Complications for Cervicitis:
Your cervix acts as a barrier to keep bacteria and viruses from entering your uterus. When the cervix is infected, there's an increased risk that the infection will travel into your uterus.
Cervicitis that's caused by gonorrhea or chlamydia can spread to the uterine lining and the fallopian tubes, resulting in pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), an infection of the female reproductive organs that can cause fertility problems if left untreated.
Cervicitis can also increase the risk of getting HIV from an infected sexual partner.
Preventions for Cervicitis
To reduce your risk of cervicitis from sexually transmitted infections, use condoms consistently and correctly each time you have sex. Condoms are very effective against the spread of STIs, such as gonorrhea and chlamydia, which can lead to cervicitis. Being in a long-term relationship in which both you and your uninfected partner are committed to having sex with each other exclusively can lower your odds of an STI.
Condition name:Chemo brain
Overview of Chemo brain:
Chemo brain is a common term used by cancer survivors to describe thinking and memory problems that can occur during and after cancer treatment. Chemo brain can also be called chemo fog, cancer-related cognitive impairment or cognitive dysfunction.
Though chemo brain is a widely used term, the causes of concentration and memory problems aren't well-understood. It's likely that there are multiple causes.
No matter the cause, chemo brain can be a frustrating and debilitating side effect of cancer and its treatment. Researchers are working to understand the memory changes that people with cancer experience.
Home Remedies for Chemo brain:
You can take steps to ease chemo brain symptoms on your own. For instance, try to:
Control what you can about your working environment. If noise and commotion are contributing to your distraction, try to find a quiet place where you can concentrate. Consider earplugs or noise-cancelling headphones. Soft music may help drown out other noises.
Prepare yourself for success. Before tackling a complicated task that requires concentration, take steps to ensure that you will have the best chance for success. Eat so you won't be distracted by hunger. Pick a time of day when you'll be the most alert. Get a good night's sleep. Have a plan so you know exactly what you'll need to do in order to complete your task.
Stay organized. Use calendars or planners to keep on task. That way you won't spend time wondering if you're forgetting an appointment or an item on your to-do list. Write everything down in your planner. Make organization a priority at home and at work, too. Having an organized work space means you can spend more time on tasks that you need to accomplish.
Clear your mind of distractions. When distracting thoughts pop up, write them down in your planner. Recording your thoughts will help to quickly clear them and ensure that you remember them later.
Take frequent breaks. Divide your tasks into manageable portions and take a break each time you complete one part. Give yourself a short rest so that you'll be able to continue later.
Exercise your brain. Try crossword puzzles or number games to exercise your brain. Take up a new hobby or master a new skill, such as learning to play a musical instrument or learning a language.
Exercise your body. Moderate exercise, such as brisk walking, can help you cope with stress, fatigue and depression. All can contribute to memory problems. If you haven't been active lately, get the OK from your doctor first.
Symptoms for Chemo brain :
Signs and symptoms of chemo brain may include the following:
Being unusually disorganized
Confusion
Difficulty concentrating
Difficulty finding the right word
Difficulty learning new skills
Difficulty multitasking
Feeling of mental fogginess
Short attention span
Short-term memory problems
Taking longer than usual to complete routine tasks
Trouble with verbal memory, such as remembering a conversation
Trouble with visual memory, such as recalling an image or list of words
Causes for Chemo brain :
There are many possible factors that might contribute to the signs and symptoms of memory problems in cancer survivors.
Cancer-related causes could include:
Risk Factors for Chemo brain:
Factors that may increase the risk of memory problems in cancer survivors include:
Brain cancer
Cancer that spreads (metastasizes) to the brain
Higher doses of chemotherapy or radiation
Radiation therapy to the brain
Younger age at time of cancer diagnosis and treatment
Increasing age
There are no Complications available for Chemo brain in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chemo brain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chest pain
Overview of Chest pain:
Chest pain appears in many forms, ranging from a sharp stab to a dull ache. Sometimes chest pain feels crushing or burning. In certain cases, the pain travels up the neck and into the jaw and then spreads to the back or down one or both arms.
Many different problems can cause chest pain. The most life-threatening causes involve the heart or lungs. Because chest pain can be due to a serious problem, it's important to seek immediate medical help.
There are no home remedies available for Chest pain in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chest pain :
Chest pain can feel different depending on what's triggering the symptom. Often, the cause has nothing to do with the heart — though there's no easy way to tell without seeing a health care provider.
Causes for Chest pain :
Chest pain has many possible causes, all of which need medical care.
There are no Risk Factors available for Chest pain in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Chest pain in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chest pain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chiari malformation
Overview of Chiari malformation:
Chiari malformation (kee-AH-ree mal-for-MAY-shun) is a condition in which brain tissue extends into the spinal canal. It occurs when part of the skull is misshapen or smaller than is typical. The skull presses on the brain and forces it downward.
Chiari malformation is not common, but increased use of imaging tests has led to more diagnoses.
Health care professionals group Chiari malformation into three types. The type depends on the anatomy of the brain tissue that is pushed into the spinal canal. The type also depends on whether there are developmental changes of the brain or spine.
Chiari malformation type 1 develops as the skull and brain are growing. Symptoms may not occur until late childhood or adulthood. The pediatric forms of Chiari malformation are type 2 and type 3. These types are present at birth, which is known as congenital.
Treatment of Chiari malformation depends on the type and the symptoms. Regular monitoring, medicines and surgery are treatment options. Sometimes no treatment is needed.
There are no home remedies available for Chiari malformation in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chiari malformation :
Many people with Chiari malformation have no symptoms and don't need treatment. They learn they have Chiari malformation only when tests are performed for unrelated conditions. But some types of Chiari malfunction can cause symptoms.
The more common types of Chiari malformation are:
Type 1
Type 2
These types are less serious than the rarer pediatric form, type 3. But symptoms still can disrupt life.
Causes for Chiari malformation :
Chiari malformation type 1 occurs when part of the skull is too small or is misshapen. This part of the skull contains the area of the brain called the cerebellum. The skull puts pressure on and crowds the brain. As a result, the lower part of the cerebellum known as the tonsils are pushed into the upper spinal canal.
Chiari malformation type 2 is nearly always associated with a form of spina bifida called myelomeningocele.
When the cerebellum is pushed into the upper spinal canal, it can interfere with the usual flow of cerebrospinal fluid that protects the brain and spinal cord. Cerebrospinal fluid can build up in the brain or spinal cord. Or it can cause signals transmitted from the brain to the body to be blocked.
Also, the pressure from the cerebellum on the spinal cord or lower brainstem can cause symptoms.
Risk Factors for Chiari malformation:
There's evidence that Chiari malformation runs in some families. However, research into a possible hereditary component is still in its early phase.
Complications for Chiari malformation:
In some people, Chiari malformation may have no symptoms and they don't need treatment. In others, Chiari malformation gets worse over time and leads to serious complications. Complications may include:
Hydrocephalus. Hydrocephalus occurs when too much fluid builds up in the brain. This can cause trouble with thinking. People with hydrocephalus may need a flexible tube called a shunt placed. The shunt diverts and drains excess cerebrospinal fluid to a different area of the body.
Spina bifida. Spina bifida is a condition in which the spinal cord or its covering isn't fully developed. Part of the spinal cord is exposed, which can cause serious conditions such as paralysis. People with Chiari malformation type 2 usually have a form of spina bifida called myelomeningocele.
Syringomyelia. Some people with Chiari malformation also develop a condition called syringomyelia. In people with this condition, a cavity or cyst called a syrinx forms within the spinal column. As the syrinx grows, it can press on the nerves and cause pain, weakness and stiffness.
Tethered cord syndrome. In this condition, the spinal cord attaches to the spine and causes the spinal cord to stretch. This can cause serious nerve and muscle damage in the lower body.
There are no preventive measures available for Chiari malformation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chickenpox
Overview of Chickenpox:
Chickenpox is an illness caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It brings on an itchy rash with small, fluid-filled blisters. Chickenpox spreads very easily to people who haven't had the disease or haven't gotten the chickenpox vaccine. Chickenpox used to be a widespread problem, but today the vaccine protects children from it.
The chickenpox vaccine is a safe way to prevent this illness and the other health problems that can happen during it.
Home Remedies for Chickenpox:
To help ease the symptoms of mild chickenpox, you can follow these self-care tips.
Try not to scratch
Scratching the skin can cause scarring and slow healing. It also can raise the risk that the sores will get infected. If your child can't stop scratching, trim your child's fingernails. It also may help to put gloves on a child's hands, especially at night.
Relieve the itch and other symptoms
The chickenpox rash can be very itchy, and broken blisters called vesicles sometimes sting. For relief of these and other symptoms, you can try:
A cool bath with added baking soda, aluminum acetate or uncooked oatmeal. Or you could add colloidal oatmeal, a finely ground oatmeal that is made for soaking.
Calamine lotion dabbed on the itchy spots.
A soft, bland diet if chickenpox sores form in the mouth.
Antihistamines such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl) for itching. But ask your provider if your child can safely take antihistamines.
Acetaminophen (Tylenol) for a mild fever.
Call your provider if a fever lasts longer than four days and is higher than 102 F (38.9 C). And don't give aspirin to children and teenagers who have chickenpox. This can lead to a serious medical problem called Reye's syndrome.
Talk with your provider before you give any type of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), to someone who has chickenpox. Some studies suggest this type of medicine may lead to skin infections or tissue damage.
Symptoms for Chickenpox :
The rash caused by chickenpox appears 10 to 21 days after you're exposed to the varicella-zoster virus. The rash often lasts about 5 to 10 days. Other symptoms that may appear 1 to 2 days before the rash include:
Fever.
Loss of appetite.
Headache.
Tiredness and a general feeling of being unwell.
Once the chickenpox rash appears, it goes through three phases:
Raised bumps called papules, which break out over a few days.
Small fluid-filled blisters called vesicles, which form in about one day and then break and leak.
Crusts and scabs, which cover the broken blisters and take a few more days to heal.
New bumps keep showing up for several days. So you may have bumps, blisters and scabs at the same time. You can spread the virus to other people for up to 48 hours before the rash appears. And the virus stays contagious until all broken blisters have crusted over.
The disease is by and large mild in healthy children. But sometimes, the rash can cover the whole body. Blisters may form in the throat and eyes. They also may form in tissue that lines the inside of the urethra, anus and vagina.
Causes for Chickenpox :
A virus called varicella-zoster causes chickenpox. It can spread through direct contact with the rash. It also can spread when a person with chickenpox coughs or sneezes and you breathe in the air droplets.
Risk Factors for Chickenpox:
Your risk of getting infected with the virus that causes chickenpox is higher if you haven't already had chickenpox or if you haven't had the chickenpox vaccine. It's extra important for people who work in child care or school settings to be vaccinated.
Most people who have had chickenpox or have gotten the vaccine are immune to chickenpox. If you've been vaccinated and still get chickenpox, symptoms are often milder. You may have fewer blisters and mild or no fever. A few people can get chickenpox more than once, but this is rare.
Complications for Chickenpox:
Chickenpox is often a mild disease. But it can be serious and can lead to other health problem including:
Infected skin, soft tissues, bones, joints or bloodstream caused by bacteria.
Dehydration, when the body runs too low on water and other fluids.
Pneumonia, an illness in one or both lungs.
Swelling of the brain called encephalitis.
Toxic shock syndrome, a dangerous complication of some illnesses caused by bacteria.
Reye's syndrome, a disease that causes swelling in the brain and liver. This can happen in children and teens who take aspirin during chickenpox.
In very rare cases, chickenpox could lead to death.
Preventions for Chickenpox
The chickenpox vaccine, also called the varicella vaccine, is the best way to prevent chickenpox. In the United States, experts from the CDC report that two doses of the vaccine prevent illness over 90% of the time. Even if you get chickenpox after receiving the vaccine, your symptoms may be much milder.
In the United States, two chickenpox vaccines are licensed for use: Varivax contains only the chickenpox vaccine. It can be used in the United States to vaccinate people age 1 or older. ProQuad combines the chickenpox vaccine with the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine. It can be used in the United States for children ages 1 to 12. This is also called the MMRV vaccine.
In the United States, children receive two doses of the varicella vaccine: the first between ages 12 and 15 months and the second between ages 4 and 6 years. This is part of the routine vaccination schedule for children.
For some children between the ages of 12 and 23 months, the MMRV combination vaccine may raise the risk of fever and seizure from the vaccine. Ask your child's health care provider about the pros and cons of using the combined vaccines.
Children 7 to 12 years old who haven't been vaccinated should receive two doses of the varicella vaccine. The doses should be given at least three months apart.
People age 13 or older who haven't been vaccinated should receive two catch-up doses of the vaccine at least four weeks apart. It's even more important to get the vaccine if you have a higher risk of getting exposed to chickenpox. This includes health care workers, teachers, child-care employees, international travelers, military personnel, adults who live with young children and all nonpregnant women of childbearing age.
If you don't remember whether you've had chickenpox or the vaccine, your provider can give you a blood test to find out.
Other chickenpox vaccines are offered outside the United States. Talk to your health care provider for more information on how well they prevent chickenpox.
Do not get the chickenpox vaccine if you're pregnant. If you decide to get vaccinated before pregnancy, don't try to get pregnant during the series of shots or for one month after the last dose of the vaccine.
Other people also shouldn't get the vaccine, or they should wait. Check with your health care provider about whether you should get the vaccine if you:
Have a weaker immune system. This includes people who have HIV or take medicines that have an effect on the immune system.
Are allergic to gelatin or the antibiotic neomycin.
Have any kind of cancer or are getting cancer treatment with radiation or medicines.
Recently received blood from a donor or other blood products.
Talk to your provider if you're not sure whether you need the vaccine. If you plan on getting pregnant, ask your provider if you're up to date on your vaccines.
Condition name:Chilblains
Overview of Chilblains:
Chilblains (CHILL-blayns) is a condition that causes inflamed swollen patches and blistering on the hands and feet. It's caused by exposure to damp air that's cold but not freezing. Symptoms may show up a few hours after being in the cold.
Chilblains can be prevented by limiting your time in the cold, dressing warmly and covering exposed skin. If you do get chilblains, keeping the skin warm and dry can help ease the symptoms.
Chilblains, also known as perniosis, usually clears up in 2 or 3 weeks, especially if the weather gets warmer. You may get the symptoms each cold season for years.
The condition doesn't usually result in permanent injury.
Home Remedies for Chilblains:
Chilblains symptoms usually clear up in 2 or 3 weeks after cold exposure. In the meantime, try the following tips to ease your symptoms:
Rewarm the skin slowly and gently, without massaging, rubbing or applying direct heat.
Avoid cold exposure whenever possible.
Keep the affected skin dry and warm, but away from sources of heat.
Apply lotion to alleviate itching, such as hydrocortisone cream available in drugstores.
Keep any blisters and sores clean and covered.
Avoid scratching the affected skin.
If you smoke, try to quit, as smoking can narrow your blood vessels and slow wound healing.
Symptoms for Chilblains :
Symptoms of chilblains include:
Small, itchy areas on your skin, often on your feet or hands.
Sores or blistering.
Swelling.
Pain or stinging.
Changes in skin color.
Causes for Chilblains :
The exact cause of chilblains is unknown. They may be an unusual reaction of your body to cold followed by rewarming. Rewarming of cold skin can cause small blood vessels under the skin to expand more quickly than nearby larger blood vessels can handle.
Risk Factors for Chilblains:
The following factors increase the risk of chilblains:
Wearing clothing and shoes that are tight or expose skin to the cold. Wearing tightfitting clothing and shoes in cold, damp weather may make you more susceptible to chilblains.
Being a young woman. This condition is most common in females between the ages of 15 and 30.
Being underweight. This condition is most common in people with a low body mass.
Living in cold, humid areas. Your risk of chilblains is higher if you live in an area with high humidity and cold but not freezing temperatures.
Having certain medical conditions. These include Raynaud's phenomenon, connective tissue disease and SARS-CoV-2.
Complications for Chilblains:
Chilblains symptoms that are long-lasting and develop after repeated exposure to cold and damp conditions can cause scarring and thin skin.
Preventions for Chilblains
To prevent chilblains:
Avoid or limit your exposure to the cold.
When you come in from the cold, rewarm the skin gradually.
Dress in layers of loose clothing and wear mittens, a scarf and a hat, and warm, water-resistant footwear.
Cover all exposed skin as completely as possible when going outside in cold weather.
Keep your hands, feet and face dry and warm.
Keep your home and workplace comfortably warm.
Don't smoke.
Condition name:Childhood apraxia of speech
Overview of Childhood apraxia of speech:
Childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) is a rare speech disorder. Children with this disorder have trouble controlling their lips, jaws and tongues when speaking.
In CAS, the brain has trouble planning for speech movement. The brain isn't able to properly direct the movements needed for speech. The speech muscles aren't weak, but the muscles don't form words the right way.
To speak correctly, the brain has to make plans that tell the speech muscles how to move the lips, jaw and tongue. The movements usually result in accurate sounds and words spoken at the proper speed and rhythm. CAS affects this process.
CAS is often treated with speech therapy. During speech therapy, a speech-language pathologist teaches the child to practice the correct way to say words, syllables and phrases.
Home Remedies for Childhood apraxia of speech:
You and your family can work with your child at home. Home practice, in addition to your child's speech therapy sessions, may help your child's progress.
Encourage and support your child as your child practices speech and language skills. Your child is likely to feel good about making improvements in speech with your support.
Be mindful of giving your child rests from therapy, as well. If your child has physical or occupational therapy along with speech therapy, schedule the sessions so that your child doesn't become too tired.
Symptoms for Childhood apraxia of speech :
Children with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) may have a variety of speech symptoms. Symptoms vary depending on a child's age and the severity of the speech problems.
CAS can result in:
Babbling less or making fewer vocal sounds than is typical between the ages of 7 to 12 months.
Speaking first words late, typically after ages 12 to 18 months old.
Using a limited number of consonants and vowels.
Often leaving out sounds when speaking.
Using speech that is hard to understand.
These symptoms are usually noticed between ages 18 months and 2 years. Symptoms at this age may indicate suspected CAS. Suspected CAS means a child may potentially have this speech disorder. The child's speech development should be watched to determine if therapy should begin.
Children usually produce more speech between ages 2 and 4. Signs that may indicate CAS include:
Vowel and consonant distortions.
Pauses between syllables or words.
Voicing errors, such as "pie" sounding like "bye."
Many children with CAS have trouble getting their jaws, lips and tongues to the correct positions to make a sound. They also may have a hard time moving smoothly to the next sound.
Many children with CAS also have language problems, such as reduced vocabulary or trouble with word order.
Some symptoms may be unique to children with CAS, which helps to make a diagnosis. However, some symptoms of CAS are also symptoms of other types of speech or language disorders. It's hard to diagnose CAS if a child has only symptoms that are found both in CAS and in other disorders.
Some characteristics, sometimes called markers, help distinguish CAS from other types of speech disorders. Those associated with CAS include:
Trouble moving smoothly from one sound, syllable or word to another.
Groping movements with the jaw, lips or tongue to try to make the correct movement for speech sounds.
Vowel distortions, such as trying to use the correct vowel but saying it incorrectly.
Using the wrong stress in a word, such as pronouncing "banana" as "BUH-nan-uh" instead of "buh-NAN-uh."
Using equal emphasis on all syllables, such as saying "BUH-NAN-UH."
Separation of syllables, such as putting a pause or gap between syllables.
Inconsistency, such as making different errors when trying to say the same word a second time.
Having a hard time imitating simple words.
Voicing errors, such as saying "down" instead of "town."
Causes for Childhood apraxia of speech :
Childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) has a number of possible causes. But often a cause can't be determined. There usually isn't an observable problem in the brain of a child with CAS.
However, CAS can be the result of brain conditions or injury. These may include a stroke, infections or traumatic brain injury.
CAS also may occur as a symptom of a genetic disorder, syndrome or metabolic condition.
CAS is sometimes referred to as developmental apraxia. But children with CAS don't make typical developmental sound errors and they don't grow out of CAS. This is unlike children with delayed speech or developmental disorders who typically follow patterns in speech and sounds development but at a slower pace than usual.
Risk Factors for Childhood apraxia of speech:
Changes in the FOXP2 gene appear to increase the risk of childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) and other speech and language disorders. The FOXP2 gene may be involved in how certain nerves and pathways in the brain develop. Researchers continue to study how changes in the FOXP2 gene may affect motor coordination and speech and language processing in the brain. Other genes also may impact motor speech development.
Complications for Childhood apraxia of speech:
Many children with childhood apraxia of speech (CAS) have other problems that affect their ability to communicate. These problems aren't due to CAS, but they may be seen along with CAS.
Symptoms or problems that are often present along with CAS include:
Delayed language. This may include trouble understanding speech, reduced vocabulary, or not using correct grammar when putting words together in a phrase or sentence.
Delays in intellectual and motor development and problems with reading, spelling and writing.
Trouble with gross and fine motor movement skills or coordination.
Trouble using communication in social interactions.
Preventions for Childhood apraxia of speech
Diagnosing and treating childhood apraxia of speech at an early stage may reduce the risk of long-term persistence of the problem. If your child experiences speech problems, have a speech-language pathologist evaluate your child as soon as you notice any speech problems.
Condition name:Childhood obesity
Overview of Childhood obesity:
Childhood obesity is a serious medical condition that affects children and adolescents. It's particularly troubling because the extra pounds often start children on the path to health problems that were once considered adult problems — diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol. Childhood obesity can also lead to poor self-esteem and depression.
One of the best strategies to reduce childhood obesity is to improve the eating and exercise habits of your entire family. Treating and preventing childhood obesity helps protect your child's health now and in the future.
There are no home remedies available for Childhood obesity in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Childhood obesity :
Not all children carrying extra pounds are overweight. Some children have larger than average body frames. And children normally carry different amounts of body fat at the various stages of development. So you might not know by how your child looks if weight is a health concern.
The body mass index (BMI), which provides a guideline of weight in relation to height, is the accepted measure of overweight and obesity. Your child's doctor can use growth charts, the BMI and, if necessary, other tests to help you figure out if your child's weight could pose health problems.
Causes for Childhood obesity :
Lifestyle issues — too little activity and too many calories from food and drinks — are the main contributors to childhood obesity. But genetic and hormonal factors might play a role as well.
Risk Factors for Childhood obesity:
Many factors — usually working in combination — increase your child's risk of becoming overweight:
Diet. Regularly eating high-calorie foods, such as fast foods, baked goods and vending machine snacks, can cause your child to gain weight. Candy and desserts also can cause weight gain, and more and more evidence points to sugary drinks, including fruit juices and sports drinks, as culprits in obesity in some people.
Lack of exercise. Children who don't exercise much are more likely to gain weight because they don't burn as many calories. Too much time spent in sedentary activities, such as watching television or playing video games, also contributes to the problem. TV shows also often feature ads for unhealthy foods.
Family factors. If your child comes from a family of overweight people, he or she may be more likely to put on weight. This is especially true in an environment where high-calorie foods are always available and physical activity isn't encouraged.
Psychological factors. Personal, parental and family stress can increase a child's risk of obesity. Some children overeat to cope with problems or to deal with emotions, such as stress, or to fight boredom. Their parents might have similar tendencies.
Socioeconomic factors. People in some communities have limited resources and limited access to supermarkets. As a result, they might buy convenience foods that don't spoil quickly, such as frozen meals, crackers and cookies. Also, people who live in lower income neighborhoods might not have access to a safe place to exercise.
Certain medications. Some prescription drugs can increase the risk of developing obesity. They include prednisone, lithium, amitriptyline, paroxetine (Paxil), gabapentin (Neurontin, Gralise, Horizant) and propranolol (Inderal, Hemangeol).
Complications for Childhood obesity:
Childhood obesity often causes complications in a child's physical, social and emotional well-being.
Preventions for Childhood obesity
To help prevent excess weight gain in your child, you can:
Set a good example. Make healthy eating and regular physical activity a family affair. Everyone will benefit and no one will feel singled out.
Have healthy snacks available. Options include air-popped popcorn without butter, fruits with low-fat yogurt, baby carrots with hummus, or whole-grain cereal with low-fat milk.
Offer new foods multiple times. Don't be discouraged if your child doesn't immediately like a new food. It usually takes multiple exposures to a food to gain acceptance.
Choose nonfood rewards. Promising candy for good behavior is a bad idea.
Be sure your child gets enough sleep. Some studies indicate that too little sleep may increase the risk of obesity. Sleep deprivation can cause hormonal imbalances that lead to increased appetite.
Also, be sure your child sees the doctor for well-child checkups at least once a year. During this visit, the doctor measures your child's height and weight and calculates his or her BMI. A significant increase in your child's BMI percentile rank over one year may be a possible sign that your child is at risk of becoming overweight.
Condition name:Childhood schizophrenia
Overview of Childhood schizophrenia:
Childhood schizophrenia is an uncommon but severe mental disorder in which children and teenagers interpret reality abnormally. Schizophrenia involves a range of problems with thinking (cognitive), behavior or emotions. It may result in some combination of hallucinations, delusions, and extremely disordered thinking and behavior that impairs your child's ability to function.
Childhood schizophrenia is essentially the same as schizophrenia in adults, but it starts early in life — generally in the teenage years — and has a profound impact on a child's behavior and development. With childhood schizophrenia, the early age of onset presents special challenges for diagnosis, treatment, education, and emotional and social development.
Schizophrenia is a chronic condition that requires lifelong treatment. Identifying and starting treatment for childhood schizophrenia as early as possible may significantly improve your child's long-term outcome.
Home Remedies for Childhood schizophrenia:
Although childhood schizophrenia requires professional treatment, it's critical to be an active participant in your child's care. Here are ways to get the most out of the treatment plan.
Follow directions for medications. Try to make sure that your child takes medications as prescribed, even if he or she is feeling well and has no current symptoms. If medications are stopped or taken infrequently, the symptoms are likely to come back and your doctor will have a hard time knowing what the best and safest dose is.
Check first before taking other medications. Contact the doctor who's treating your child for schizophrenia before your child takes medications prescribed by another doctor or before taking any over-the-counter medications, vitamins, minerals, herbs or other supplements. These can interact with schizophrenia medications.
Pay attention to warning signs. You and your child may have identified things that may trigger symptoms, cause a relapse or prevent your child from carrying out daily activities. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your child's doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms, to prevent the situation from worsening.
Make physical activity and healthy eating a priority. Some medications for schizophrenia are associated with an increased risk of weight gain and high cholesterol in children. Work with your child's doctor to make a nutrition and physical activity plan for your child that will help manage weight and benefit heart health.
Avoid alcohol, recreational drugs and nicotine. Alcohol, recreational drugs and nicotine can worsen schizophrenia symptoms or interfere with antipsychotic medications. Talk to your child about avoiding drugs and alcohol and not smoking. If necessary, get appropriate treatment for a substance use problem.
Symptoms for Childhood schizophrenia :
Schizophrenia involves a range of problems with thinking, behavior or emotions. Signs and symptoms may vary, but usually involve delusions, hallucinations or disorganized speech, and reflect an impaired ability to function. The effect can be disabling.
In most people with schizophrenia, symptoms generally start in the mid- to late 20s, though it can start later, up to the mid-30s. Schizophrenia is considered early onset when it starts before the age of 18. Onset of schizophrenia in children younger than age 13 is extremely rare.
Symptoms can vary in type and severity over time, with periods of worsening and remission of symptoms. Some symptoms may always be present. Schizophrenia can be difficult to recognize in the early phases.
Causes for Childhood schizophrenia :
It's not known what causes childhood schizophrenia, but it's thought that it develops in the same way as adult schizophrenia does. Researchers believe that a combination of genetics, brain chemistry and environment contributes to development of the disorder. It's not clear why schizophrenia starts so early in life for some and not for others.
Problems with certain naturally occurring brain chemicals, including neurotransmitters called dopamine and glutamate, may contribute to schizophrenia. Neuroimaging studies show differences in the brain structure and central nervous system of people with schizophrenia. While researchers aren't certain about the significance of these changes, they indicate that schizophrenia is a brain disease.
Risk Factors for Childhood schizophrenia:
Although the precise cause of schizophrenia isn't known, certain factors seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering schizophrenia, including:
Having a family history of schizophrenia
Increased immune system activation, such as from inflammation
Older age of the father
Some pregnancy and birth complications, such as malnutrition or exposure to toxins or viruses that may impact brain development
Taking mind-altering (psychoactive) drugs during teen years
Complications for Childhood schizophrenia:
Left untreated, childhood schizophrenia can result in severe emotional, behavioral and health problems. Complications associated with schizophrenia may occur in childhood or later, such as:
Suicide, suicide attempts and thoughts of suicide
Self-injury
Anxiety disorders, panic disorders and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Depression
Abuse of alcohol or other drugs, including nicotine
Family conflicts
Inability to live independently, attend school or work
Social isolation
Health and medical problems
Being victimized
Legal and financial problems, and homelessness
Aggressive behavior, although uncommon
Preventions for Childhood schizophrenia
Early identification and treatment may help get symptoms of childhood schizophrenia under control before serious complications develop. Early treatment is also crucial in helping limit psychotic episodes, which can be extremely frightening to a child and his or her parents. Ongoing treatment can help improve your child's long-term outlook.
Condition name:Chlamydia trachomatis
Overview of Chlamydia trachomatis:
Chlamydia (kluh-MID-e-uh) is a common sexually transmitted disease.
Sexually transmitted diseases are infections spread mainly by contact with genitals or bodily fluids. Also called STDs, STIs or venereal disease, sexually transmitted infections are caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites.
Chlamydia is caused by Chlamydia trachomatis (truh-KOH-muh-tis) bacteria and spread through oral, vaginal or anal sex.
You might not know you have chlamydia because many people don't have symptoms, such as genital pain and discharge from the vagina or penis. Chlamydia trachomatis affects mostly young women, but it can occur in both men and women and in all age groups.
It's not difficult to treat, but if left untreated it can lead to more-serious health problems.
There are no home remedies available for Chlamydia trachomatis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chlamydia trachomatis :
Early-stage Chlamydia trachomatis infections often cause few symptoms. Even when symptoms occur, they're often mild. That makes them easy to overlook, which is why regular screening is important.
Symptoms of Chlamydia trachomatis infection can include:
Painful urination.
Vaginal discharge.
Discharge from the penis.
Painful vaginal sex.
Vaginal bleeding between periods and after sex.
Testicular pain.
Depending on a person's sexual activity, Chlamydia trachomatis can infect the eyes, throat or rectum.
Eye infections, called conjunctivitis, cause the inside of the eyelid to be red and irritated. In the throat, an infection may have no symptoms, or a person may have a sore throat. An infection in the rectum may have no symptoms or may cause rectal pain, discharge or bleeding.
Causes for Chlamydia trachomatis :
The Chlamydia trachomatis bacterium is most commonly spread through vaginal, oral and anal sex. It also is possible for the bacterium to spread in pregnancy, during delivery of the baby. Chlamydia can cause pneumonia or a serious eye infection in the newborn.
Risk Factors for Chlamydia trachomatis:
People who have sex before age 25 are at higher risk of chlamydia than are older people. That's because younger people are more likely to have more than one risk factor.
Risk factors for chlamydia include:
Not using a condom or incorrect condom use.
Less use of health services to prevent and treat sexually transmitted infections.
New or multiple sex partners.
Changing sex partners before learning about a chlamydia infection.
Complications for Chlamydia trachomatis:
Chlamydia trachomatis can be associated with:
Pelvic inflammatory disease, also called PID. PID is an infection of the uterus and fallopian tubes. Severe infections might require care in the hospital. PID can damage the fallopian tubes, ovaries and uterus, including the cervix.
Infection near the testicles. A chlamydia infection can inflame the coiled tube located beside each testicle, called the epididymis. The infection can result in fever, scrotal pain and swelling.
Prostate gland infection. Rarely, the chlamydia bacteria can spread to the prostate gland. Prostatitis can cause pain during or after sex, fever and chills, painful urination, and lower back pain.
Infections in newborns. The chlamydia infection can pass from the vaginal canal to your child during delivery, causing pneumonia or a serious eye infection.
Ectopic pregnancy. This occurs when a fertilized egg implants and grows outside of the uterus, usually in a fallopian tube. The egg needs to be removed to prevent life-threatening complications, such as a burst tube. A chlamydia infection increases this risk.
Infertility. Chlamydia infections can cause scarring and obstruction in the fallopian tubes, which might lead to infertility.
Reactive arthritis. People who have Chlamydia trachomatis are at higher risk of developing reactive arthritis, also known as Reiter syndrome. This condition typically affects the joints, eyes and urethra — the tube that carries urine from the bladder to outside of your body.
Preventions for Chlamydia trachomatis
The surest way to prevent chlamydia infection is to abstain from sexual activities. Short of that, you can:
Use condoms. Use a male latex condom or a female polyurethane condom during each sexual contact. Condoms used properly during every sexual encounter lower but don't eliminate the risk of infection.
Limit your number of sex partners. Having multiple sex partners puts you at a high risk of contracting chlamydia and other sexually transmitted infections.
Get regular screenings. If you're sexually active, particularly if you have multiple partners, talk with your healthcare professional about how often you should be screened for chlamydia and other sexually transmitted infections.
A medicine called doxycycline may be an option to prevent infection among people at higher risk than average of getting chlamydia. Higher risk groups include men who have sex with men and transgender women.
Taking doxycycline within 3 days of sexual activity lowers the risk of an infection with the bacteria that cause chlamydia. Your healthcare professional can prescribe doxycycline and any testing you need while taking the medicine.
Condition name:Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer)
Overview of Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer):
Cholangiocarcinoma is a type of cancer that forms in the slender tubes (bile ducts) that carry the digestive fluid bile. Bile ducts connect your liver to your gallbladder and to your small intestine.
Cholangiocarcinoma, also known as bile duct cancer, occurs mostly in people older than age 50, though it can occur at any age.
Doctors divide cholangiocarcinoma into different types based on where the cancer occurs in the bile ducts:
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma occurs in the parts of the bile ducts within the liver and is sometimes classified as a type of liver cancer.
Hilar cholangiocarcinoma occurs in the bile ducts just outside of the liver. This type is also called perihilar cholangiocarcinoma.
Distal cholangiocarcinoma occurs in the portion of the bile duct nearest the small intestine. This type is also called extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma is often diagnosed when it's advanced, making successful treatment difficult to achieve.
There are no home remedies available for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer) :
Signs and symptoms of cholangiocarcinoma include:
Yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)
Intensely itchy skin
White-colored stools
Fatigue
Abdominal pain on the right side, just below the ribs
Losing weight without trying
Fever
Night sweats
Dark urine
Causes for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer) :
Cholangiocarcinoma happens when cells in the bile ducts develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply out of control and form a mass of cells (tumor) that can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. It's not clear what causes the changes that lead to cholangiocarcinoma.
Risk Factors for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer):
Factors that may increase your risk of cholangiocarcinoma include:
Primary sclerosing cholangitis. This disease causes hardening and scarring of the bile ducts.
Chronic liver disease. Scarring of the liver caused by a history of chronic liver disease increases the risk of cholangiocarcinoma.
Bile duct problems present at birth. People born with a choledochal cyst, which causes dilated and irregular bile ducts, have an increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma.
A liver parasite. In areas of Southeast Asia, cholangiocarcinoma is associated with liver fluke infection, which can occur from eating raw or undercooked fish.
Older age. Cholangiocarcinoma occurs most often in adults over age 50.
Smoking. Smoking is associated with an increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma.
Diabetes. People who have type 1 or 2 diabetes may have an increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma.
Certain inherited conditions. Some DNA changes passed from parents to children cause conditions that increase the risk of cholangiocarcinoma. Examples of these conditions include cystic fibrosis and Lynch syndrome.
There are no Complications available for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer) in the knowledge basePreventions for Cholangiocarcinoma (bile duct cancer)
To reduce your risk of cholangiocarcinoma, you can:
Stop smoking. Smoking is linked to an increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma. If you smoke, stop. If you have tried quitting in the past and haven't been successful, talk with your doctor about strategies to help you quit.
Reduce your risk of liver disease. Chronic liver disease is associated with an increased risk of cholangiocarcinoma. Some causes of liver disease can't be prevented, but others can. Do what you can to take care of your liver.
For instance, to reduce your risk of liver inflammation (cirrhosis), drink alcohol in moderation, if you choose to drink. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men. Maintain a healthy weight. When working with chemicals, follow the safety instructions.
Condition name:Cholecystitis
Overview of Cholecystitis:
Cholecystitis (ko-luh-sis-TIE-tis) is swelling and irritation, called inflammation, of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ on the right side of the belly under the liver. The gallbladder holds fluid that digests food. This fluid is called bile. The gallbladder releases bile into the small intestine.
Most often, gallstones that block the tube leading out of the gallbladder cause cholecystitis. This results in a bile buildup that can cause inflammation. Other causes of cholecystitis include bile duct changes, tumors, serious illness and certain infections.
If not treated, cholecystitis can lead to serious complications, such as gallbladder rupture. These can be life-threatening. Treatment for cholecystitis often involves surgery to remove the gallbladder.
There are no home remedies available for Cholecystitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cholecystitis :
Symptoms of cholecystitis may include:
Severe pain in the upper right or center belly area.
Pain that spreads to the right shoulder or back.
Tenderness over the belly area when it's touched.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fever.
Cholecystitis symptoms often come on after a meal. A large or fatty meal is most likely to cause symptoms.
Causes for Cholecystitis :
Cholecystitis is when your gallbladder is inflamed. Gallbladder inflammation can be caused by:
Gallstones. Most often, cholecystitis is the result of hard particles of bile that can form in the gallbladder, called gallstones. Gallstones can block the tube that carries bile when it leaves the gallbladder. The tube is called the cystic duct. Bile builds up in the gallbladder, causing swelling and irritation.
Tumor. A tumor may keep bile from draining out of the gallbladder as it should. This causes bile buildup that can lead to cholecystitis.
Bile duct blockage. Stones or thickened bile and tiny particles called sludge can block the bile duct and lead to cholecystitis. Kinking or scarring of the bile ducts also can cause blockage.
Infection. AIDS and other infections caused by viruses can cause gallbladder swelling and irritation.
Serious illness. Very serious illness can damage blood vessels and lessen blood flow to the gallbladder. This can lead to cholecystitis.
Risk Factors for Cholecystitis:
Having gallstones is the main risk factor for getting cholecystitis.
Complications for Cholecystitis:
If not treated, cholecystitis can lead to serious complications, including:
Infection within the gallbladder. If bile builds up in the gallbladder, the bile may get infected.
Death of gallbladder tissue. Cholecystitis that isn't treated can cause tissue in the gallbladder to die. This is called gangrene. This most common complication mainly affects older people, those who wait to get treatment and those with diabetes. Gangrene can lead to a tear in the gallbladder. Or it may cause the gallbladder to burst.
Torn gallbladder. A tear, called a perforation, in the gallbladder may result from gallbladder swelling or infection or the death of gallbladder tissue.
Preventions for Cholecystitis
You can reduce your risk of cholecystitis by taking the following steps to prevent gallstones:
Lose weight slowly. Fast weight loss can raise the risk of gallstones.
Be at a healthy weight. Being overweight makes you more likely to get gallstones. To get to a healthy weight, cut calories and increase your physical activity. Stay at a healthy weight through healthy eating and exercise.
Choose a healthy-eating plan. Eating foods high in fat and low in fiber may raise the risk of gallstones. To lower your risk, eat a lot of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Condition name:Cholestasis of pregnancy
Overview of Cholestasis of pregnancy:
Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, commonly known as cholestasis of pregnancy, is a liver condition that can occur in late pregnancy. The condition triggers intense itching, but without a rash. Itching is usually on the hands and feet but also can occur on other parts of the body.
Cholestasis of pregnancy can make you very uncomfortable. But more worrisome are the potential complications, especially for your baby. Because of the risk of complications, your pregnancy care provider may recommend early term delivery around 37 weeks.
Home Remedies for Cholestasis of pregnancy:
Home remedies may not offer much relief for itching due to cholestasis of pregnancy. But it doesn't hurt to try these soothing tips:
Cool baths, which may make the itching feel less intense
Oatmeal baths, creams or lotions, which may soothe the skin
Icing a particularly itchy patch of skin, which may briefly reduce the itch
Symptoms for Cholestasis of pregnancy :
Intense itching is the main symptom of cholestasis of pregnancy. But there is no rash. Typically, you feel itchy on the palms of your hands or the soles of your feet, but you may feel itchy everywhere. The itching is often worse at night and may bother you so much that you can't sleep.
The itching is most common during the third trimester of pregnancy but sometimes begins earlier. It may feel worse as your due date gets near. But once your baby arrives, the itchiness usually goes away within a few days.
Other less common signs and symptoms of cholestasis of pregnancy may include:
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice
Nausea
Loss of appetite
Oily, foul-smelling stools
Causes for Cholestasis of pregnancy :
The exact cause of cholestasis of pregnancy is unclear. Cholestasis is reduced or stopped bile flow. Bile is the digestive fluid made in the liver that helps break down fats. Instead of leaving the liver for the small intestine, bile builds up in the liver. As a result, bile acids eventually enter the bloodstream. High levels of bile acids appear to cause the symptoms and complications of cholestasis of pregnancy.
Pregnancy hormones, genetics and the environment may all play a role.
Hormones. Pregnancy hormones rise the closer you get to your due date. This may slow the flow of bile.
Genes. Sometimes, the condition runs in families. Certain gene changes have been identified that may be linked to cholestasis of pregnancy.
Environment. Although the exact environmental factors aren't clear, risk varies by geographic location and season.
Risk Factors for Cholestasis of pregnancy:
Some factors that may increase your risk of developing cholestasis of pregnancy include:
Personal or family history of cholestasis of pregnancy
History of liver damage or disease, including hepatitis C and gallbladder stones
Being pregnant with multiple babies
Pregnancy at an older age, such as 35 years or older
If you have a history of cholestasis in a prior pregnancy, your risk of developing it during another pregnancy is high. About 60% to 70% of females have it happen again. This is called a recurrence. In severe cases, the risk of recurrence may be as high as 90%.
Complications for Cholestasis of pregnancy:
Complications from cholestasis of pregnancy appear to be due to high bile acid levels in the blood. Complications may occur in the mom, but the developing baby is especially at risk.
In moms, the condition may temporarily affect the way the body absorbs fat. Poor absorption of fat could result in decreased levels of vitamin K-dependent factors involved with blood clotting. But this complication is rare. Future liver problems may occur but are uncommon.
Also, cholestasis of pregnancy increases the risk of complications during pregnancy such as preeclampsia and gestational diabetes.
In babies, the complications of cholestasis of pregnancy can be severe. They may include:
Being born too early, also called preterm birth.
Lung problems from breathing in meconium. Meconium is the sticky, green substance that typically collects in the developing baby's intestines. Meconium may pass into the amniotic fluid if a mom has cholestasis.
Death of the baby late in pregnancy before delivery, also called stillbirth.
Because complications can be very dangerous for your baby, your pregnancy care provider may consider inducing labor before your due date.
Preventions for Cholestasis of pregnancy
There is no known way to prevent cholestasis of pregnancy.
Condition name:Chondrosarcoma
Overview of Chondrosarcoma:
Chondrosarcoma is a rare type of cancer that usually begins in the bones, but can sometimes occur in the soft tissue near bones. Chondrosarcoma happens most often in the pelvis, hip and shoulder. More rarely, it can happen in the bones of the spine.
Most chondrosarcomas grow slowly and may not cause many signs and symptoms at first. Some rare types grow rapidly and have a high risk of spreading to other areas of the body, which can make these cancers difficult to treat.
Chondrosarcoma treatment usually involves surgery. Other options might include radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Chondrosarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chondrosarcoma :
Chondrosarcoma tends to grow slowly, so it might not cause signs and symptoms at first. When they occur, signs and symptoms of chondrosarcoma may include:
Increasing pain
A growing lump or area of swelling
Weakness or bowel and bladder control problems, if the cancer presses on the spinal cord
Causes for Chondrosarcoma :
It's not clear what causes chondrosarcoma. Doctors know that cancer begins when a cell develops changes (mutations) in its DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell it what to do. The instructions tell the cell to multiply quickly and to continue living when healthy cells would die. The accumulating cells form a tumor that can grow to invade and destroy normal body tissue. In time, cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other areas of the body.
Risk Factors for Chondrosarcoma:
Factors that can increase the risk of chondrosarcoma include:
Increasing age. Chondrosarcoma occurs most often in middle-aged and older adults, though it can occur at any age.
Other bone diseases. Ollier's disease and Maffucci's syndrome are conditions that cause noncancerous bone growths (enchondromas) in the body. These growths sometimes transform into chondrosarcoma.
There are no Complications available for Chondrosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chondrosarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chordoma
Overview of Chordoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Chordoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chordoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Chordoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Chordoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Chordoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chordoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Choroid plexus carcinoma
Overview of Choroid plexus carcinoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Choroid plexus carcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Choroid plexus carcinoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Choroid plexus carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Choroid plexus carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Choroid plexus carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Choroid plexus carcinoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic cough
Overview of Chronic cough:
A chronic cough is a cough that lasts eight weeks or longer in adults, or four weeks in children. A chronic cough is more than just annoying. It can interrupt your sleep and leave you feeling very tired. Severe cases of chronic cough can cause vomiting and lightheadedness, and even break a rib.
The most common causes are tobacco use and asthma. Other common causes include fluid that drips from the nose down the back of the throat, called postnasal drip, and the backward flow of stomach acid into the tube that connects the throat to the stomach, called acid reflux. Fortunately, chronic cough usually goes away once the underlying issue is treated.
Home Remedies for Chronic cough:
Follow the plan your doctor gives you for treating the cause of your cough. In the meantime, you can also try these tips to ease your cough:
Drink fluids. Liquid helps thin the mucus in your throat. Warm liquids, such as broth, tea or juice, can soothe your throat.
Suck on cough drops or hard candies. They may ease a dry cough and soothe an irritated throat.
Consider taking honey. A teaspoon of honey may help loosen a cough. Don't give honey to children younger than 1 year old because honey can contain bacteria harmful to infants.
Moisturize the air. Use a cool-mist humidifier or take a steamy shower.
Avoid tobacco smoke. Smoking or breathing secondhand smoke irritates your lungs and can worsen coughs caused by other factors. If you smoke, talk with your doctor about programs and products that can help you quit.
Symptoms for Chronic cough :
A chronic cough can occur with other symptoms, including:
A runny or stuffy nose.
A feeling of liquid running down the back of your throat, also known as postnasal drip.
Clearing your throat a lot.
Sore throat.
Hoarseness.
Wheezing and shortness of breath.
Heartburn or a sour taste in your mouth.
In rare cases, coughing up blood.
Causes for Chronic cough :
A cough that happens once in a while is common. It helps clear irritants and mucus from your lungs and prevents infection. But a cough that lasts for weeks is usually due to a health concern. Many times, more than one health concern causes the cough.
Most cases of chronic cough are due to these causes, which can occur alone or together:
Postnasal drip. When your nose or sinuses produce extra mucus, it can drip down the back of your throat and cause you to cough. This condition also is called upper airway cough syndrome.
Asthma. An asthma-related cough may come and go with the seasons. It may appear after an upper respiratory tract infection. Or it can get worse when you're exposed to cold air or certain chemicals or fragrances. In one type of asthma known as cough-variant asthma, a cough is the main symptom.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. In this common condition, also called GERD, stomach acid flows back into the tube that connects your stomach and throat. This tube is also known as your esophagus. The constant irritation can lead to chronic coughing. Then the coughing can make GERD worse, creating a vicious cycle.
Infections. A cough can last long after other symptoms of pneumonia, flu, a cold or another infection of the upper respiratory tract have gone away. A common cause of a chronic cough in adults — but one that often isn't recognized — is whooping cough, also known as pertussis. Chronic cough also can occur with fungal infections of the lung, as well as tuberculosis infection, also called TB, or lung infection with nontuberculous mycobacteria, also called NTM. NTM is found in soil, water and dust.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Also called COPD, this is a lifelong inflammatory lung disease that limits airflow from the lungs. COPD includes chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Chronic bronchitis can cause a cough that brings up colored sputum. Emphysema causes shortness of breath and damages the air sacs in the lungs, also known as alveoli. Most people with COPD are current or former smokers.
Blood pressure drugs. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, also called ACE inhibitors, which are commonly prescribed for high blood pressure and heart failure, are known to cause chronic cough in some people.
Less commonly, chronic cough may be caused by:
Aspiration — when food or other items are swallowed or inhaled and go into the lungs.
Bronchiectasis — widened and damaged airways that slowly lose the ability to clear out mucus.
Bronchiolitis — an infection that causes swelling, irritation and buildup of mucus in the small airways of the lung.
Cystic fibrosis — a genetic disorder that affects the lungs, digestive system and other organs.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis — gradual damage and scarring of the lungs due to a cause that isn't known.
Lung cancer — cancer that starts in the lungs, including non-small cell lung cancer and small cell lung cancer.
Nonasthmatic eosinophilic bronchitis — when airways are inflamed but asthma is not the cause.
Sarcoidosis — groups of inflamed cells that form lumps or nodules in different parts of the body but most often in the lungs.
Risk Factors for Chronic cough:
Being a current or former smoker is one of the leading risk factors for chronic cough. Exposure to a lot of secondhand smoke also can lead to coughing and lung damage.
Complications for Chronic cough:
Having a cough that doesn't stop can be very tiring. Coughing can cause various concerns, including:
Sleep disruption.
Headache.
Dizziness.
Vomiting.
Sweating a lot.
Unintended bladder loss, also known as urinary incontinence.
Broken ribs.
Passing out, also known as syncope.
There are no preventive measures available for Chronic cough in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic daily headaches
Overview of Chronic daily headaches:
Most people have headaches from time to time. But if you have a headache more days than not, you might have chronic daily headaches.
Rather than a specific headache type, chronic daily headaches include a variety of headache subtypes. Chronic refers to how often the headaches occur and how long the condition lasts.
The constant nature of chronic daily headaches makes them one of the most disabling headache conditions. Aggressive initial treatment and steady, long-term management might reduce pain and lead to fewer headaches.
There are no home remedies available for Chronic daily headaches in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chronic daily headaches :
By definition, chronic daily headaches occur 15 days or more a month, for longer than three months. True (primary) chronic daily headaches aren't caused by another condition.
There are short-lasting and long-lasting chronic daily headaches. Long-lasting headaches last more than four hours. They include:
Chronic migraine
Chronic tension-type headache
New daily persistent headache
Hemicrania continua
Causes for Chronic daily headaches :
The causes of many chronic daily headaches aren't well-understood. True (primary) chronic daily headaches don't have an identifiable underlying cause.
Conditions that might cause nonprimary chronic daily headaches include:
Inflammation or other problems with the blood vessels in and around the brain, including stroke
Infections, such as meningitis
Intracranial pressure that's either too high or too low
Brain tumor
Traumatic brain injury
Risk Factors for Chronic daily headaches:
Factors associated with developing frequent headaches include:
Female sex
Anxiety
Depression
Sleep disturbances
Obesity
Snoring
Overuse of caffeine
Overuse of headache medication
Other chronic pain conditions
Complications for Chronic daily headaches:
If you have chronic daily headaches, you're also more likely to have depression, anxiety, sleep disturbances, and other psychological and physical problems.
Preventions for Chronic daily headaches
Taking care of yourself might help ease chronic daily headaches.
Avoid headache triggers. Keeping a headache diary can help you determine what triggers your headaches so that you can avoid the triggers. Include details about every headache, such as when it started, what you were doing at the time and how long it lasted.
Avoid medication overuse. Taking headache medications, including over-the-counter medications, more than twice a week can increase the severity and frequency of your headaches. Consult your doctor about how to wean yourself off the medication because there can be serious side effects if done improperly.
Get enough sleep. The average adult needs seven to eight hours of sleep a night. It's best to go to bed and wake up at the same time every day. Talk to your doctor if you have sleep disturbances, such as snoring.
Don't skip meals. Eat healthy meals at about the same times daily. Avoid food or drinks, such as those containing caffeine, that seem to trigger headaches. Lose weight if you're obese.
Exercise regularly. Regular aerobic physical activity can improve your physical and mental well-being and reduce stress. With your doctor's OK, choose activities you enjoy — such as walking, swimming or cycling. To avoid injury, start slowly.
Reduce stress. Stress is a common trigger of chronic headaches. Get organized. Simplify your schedule. Plan ahead. Stay positive. Try stress-reduction techniques, such as yoga, tai chi or meditation.
Reduce caffeine. While some headache medications include caffeine because it can be beneficial in reducing headache pain, it can also aggravate headaches. Try to minimize or eliminate caffeine from your diet.
Condition name:Chronic granulomatous disease
Overview of Chronic granulomatous disease:
Chronic granulomatous (gran-u-LOM-uh-tus) disease (CGD) is an inherited disorder that occurs when a type of white blood cell, called a phagocyte, doesn't work properly. Phagocytes usually help your body fight infections. When they don't work as they should, phagocytes can't protect your body from bacterial and fungal infections.
People with chronic granulomatous disease may develop infections in their lungs, skin, lymph nodes, liver, stomach and intestines, or other areas. They also may develop clusters of white blood cells in infected areas. Most people are diagnosed with CGD during childhood, but some people may not be diagnosed until adulthood.
There are no home remedies available for Chronic granulomatous disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chronic granulomatous disease :
People with chronic granulomatous disease experience serious bacterial or fungal infection every few years. An infection in the lungs, including pneumonia, is common. People with CGD may develop a serious type of fungal pneumonia after being exposed to dead leaves, mulch or hay.
It's also common for people with CGD to experience infections of the skin, liver, stomach and intestines, brain, and eyes. Symptoms associated with infections include:
Fever.
Chest pain when inhaling or exhaling.
Swollen and sore lymph glands.
An ongoing runny nose.
Skin irritation that may include a rash, swelling or redness.
Swelling and redness in the mouth.
Gastrointestinal problems that may include:
Vomiting.
Diarrhea.
Stomach pain.
Bloody stool.
A painful pocket of pus near the anus.
Causes for Chronic granulomatous disease :
A change in one of five genes can cause CGD. People with CGD inherit the changed gene from a parent. These genes produce proteins that form an enzyme. This enzyme helps your immune system work properly. The enzyme is active in white blood cells, called phagocytes, that protect you from infections by destroying fungi and bacteria. The enzyme is also active in immune cells that help your body heal.
When there are changes to one of these genes, the protective proteins are not produced. Or they're produced, but they don't function properly.
Some people with CGD don't have one of these changed genes. In these cases, health care providers don't know what causes the condition.
There are no Risk Factors available for Chronic granulomatous disease in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Chronic granulomatous disease in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chronic granulomatous disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic hives
Overview of Chronic hives:
Hives — also called urticaria (ur-tih-KAR-e-uh) — is a skin reaction that causes itchy welts. Chronic hives are welts that last for more than six weeks and return often over months or years. Often, the cause of chronic hives isn't clear.
The welts often start as itchy patches that turn into swollen welts that vary in size. These welts appear and fade at random as the reaction runs its course. Each individual welt typically lasts less than 24 hours.
Chronic hives can be very uncomfortable and interfere with sleep and daily activities. For many people, anti-itch medicines, called antihistamines, provide relief.
There are no home remedies available for Chronic hives in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chronic hives :
Symptoms of chronic hives include:
Batches of welts, called weals, that can arise anywhere on the body.
Welts that might be red, purple or skin-colored, depending on your skin color.
Welts that vary in size, change shape, and appear and fade repeatedly.
Itchiness, also called pruritus, which can be intense.
Painful swelling, called angioedema, around the eyes, cheeks or lips.
Flares triggered by heat, exercise or stress.
Symptoms that persist for more than six weeks and recur often and anytime, sometimes for months or years.
Causes for Chronic hives :
The welts that come with hives are caused by the release of immune system chemicals, such as histamine, into your bloodstream. It's often not known why chronic hives happen or why short-term hives sometimes turn into a long-term problem.
The skin reaction may be triggered by:
Heat or cold.
Sunlight.
Vibration, such as caused by jogging or using lawn mowers.
Pressure on the skin, as from a tight waistband.
Medical conditions, such as thyroid disease, infection, allergy and cancer.
Risk Factors for Chronic hives:
In most cases, chronic hives is not predictable. In some people, the risk of chronic hives increases if they have certain medical conditions. These include infection, thyroid disease, allergy, cancer and swelling of the blood vessels, called vasculitis.
Complications for Chronic hives:
Chronic hives don't put you at sudden risk of a serious allergic reaction, called anaphylaxis. If you do get hives as part of a severe allergic reaction, seek emergency care. Symptoms of anaphylaxis include dizziness, trouble breathing, and swelling of the tongue, lips, mouth or throat.
Preventions for Chronic hives
To lower your likelihood of getting hives, use these self-care tips:
Avoid known triggers. If you know what has triggered your hives, try to avoid that substance.
Bathe and change your clothes. If pollen or animal contact has triggered your hives in the past, take a bath or shower and change your clothes if you're exposed to pollen or animals.
Condition name:Chronic kidney disease
Overview of Chronic kidney disease:
Chronic kidney disease, also called chronic kidney failure, involves a gradual loss of kidney function. Your kidneys filter wastes and excess fluids from your blood, which are then removed in your urine. Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause dangerous levels of fluid, electrolytes and wastes to build up in your body.
In the early stages of chronic kidney disease, you might have few signs or symptoms. You might not realize that you have kidney disease until the condition is advanced.
Treatment for chronic kidney disease focuses on slowing the progression of kidney damage, usually by controlling the cause. But, even controlling the cause might not keep kidney damage from progressing. Chronic kidney disease can progress to end-stage kidney failure, which is fatal without artificial filtering (dialysis) or a kidney transplant.
Home Remedies for Chronic kidney disease:
As part of your treatment for chronic kidney disease, your doctor might recommend a special diet to help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Ask your doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian who can analyze your diet and suggest ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Depending on your situation, kidney function and overall health, dietary recommendations might include the following:
Avoid products with added salt. Lower the amount of sodium you eat each day by avoiding products with added salt, including many convenience foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Choose lower potassium foods. High-potassium foods include bananas, oranges, potatoes, spinach and tomatoes. Examples of low-potassium foods include apples, cabbage, carrots, green beans, grapes and strawberries. Be aware that many salt substitutes contain potassium, so you generally should avoid them if you have kidney failure.
Limit the amount of protein you eat. Your registered dietitian will estimate how many grams of protein you need each day and make recommendations based on that amount. High-protein foods include lean meats, eggs, milk, cheese and beans. Low-protein foods include vegetables, fruits, breads and cereals.
More Information
Chronic kidney disease care at Mayo Clinic
Eating right for chronic kidney disease
Renal diet for vegetarians
Show more related information
Symptoms for Chronic kidney disease :
Signs and symptoms of chronic kidney disease develop over time if kidney damage progresses slowly. Loss of kidney function can cause a buildup of fluid or body waste or electrolyte problems. Depending on how severe it is, loss of kidney function can cause:
Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Fatigue and weakness
Sleep problems
Urinating more or less
Decreased mental sharpness
Muscle cramps
Swelling of feet and ankles
Dry, itchy skin
High blood pressure (hypertension) that's difficult to control
Shortness of breath, if fluid builds up in the lungs
Chest pain, if fluid builds up around the lining of the heart
Signs and symptoms of kidney disease are often nonspecific. This means they can also be caused by other illnesses. Because your kidneys are able to make up for lost function, you might not develop signs and symptoms until irreversible damage has occurred.
Causes for Chronic kidney disease :
Chronic kidney disease occurs when a disease or condition impairs kidney function, causing kidney damage to worsen over several months or years.
Diseases and conditions that cause chronic kidney disease include:
Type 1 or type 2 diabetes
High blood pressure
Glomerulonephritis (gloe-mer-u-low-nuh-FRY-tis), an inflammation of the kidney's filtering units (glomeruli)
Interstitial nephritis (in-tur-STISH-ul nuh-FRY-tis), an inflammation of the kidney's tubules and surrounding structures
Polycystic kidney disease or other inherited kidney diseases
Prolonged obstruction of the urinary tract, from conditions such as enlarged prostate, kidney stones and some cancers
Vesicoureteral (ves-ih-koe-yoo-REE-tur-ul) reflux, a condition that causes urine to back up into your kidneys
Recurrent kidney infection, also called pyelonephritis (pie-uh-low-nuh-FRY-tis)
Risk Factors for Chronic kidney disease:
Factors that can increase your risk of chronic kidney disease include:
Diabetes
High blood pressure
Heart (cardiovascular) disease
Smoking
Obesity
Being Black, Native American or Asian American
Family history of kidney disease
Abnormal kidney structure
Older age
Frequent use of medications that can damage the kidneys
Complications for Chronic kidney disease:
Chronic kidney disease can affect almost every part of your body. Potential complications include:
Fluid retention, which could lead to swelling in your arms and legs, high blood pressure, or fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema)
A sudden rise in potassium levels in your blood (hyperkalemia), which could impair your heart's function and can be life-threatening
Anemia
Heart disease
Weak bones and an increased risk of bone fractures
Decreased sex drive, erectile dysfunction or reduced fertility
Damage to your central nervous system, which can cause difficulty concentrating, personality changes or seizures
Decreased immune response, which makes you more vulnerable to infection
Pericarditis, an inflammation of the saclike membrane that envelops your heart (pericardium)
Pregnancy complications that carry risks for the mother and the developing fetus
Irreversible damage to your kidneys (end-stage kidney disease), eventually requiring either dialysis or a kidney transplant for survival
Preventions for Chronic kidney disease
To reduce your risk of developing kidney disease:
Follow instructions on over-the-counter medications. When using nonprescription pain relievers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), follow the instructions on the package. Taking too many pain relievers for a long time could lead to kidney damage.
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're at a healthy weight, maintain it by being physically active most days of the week. If you need to lose weight, talk with your doctor about strategies for healthy weight loss.
Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking can damage your kidneys and make existing kidney damage worse. If you're a smoker, talk to your doctor about strategies for quitting. Support groups, counseling and medications can all help you to stop.
Manage your medical conditions with your doctor's help. If you have diseases or conditions that increase your risk of kidney disease, work with your doctor to control them. Ask your doctor about tests to look for signs of kidney damage.
Condition name:Chronic lymphocytic leukemia
Overview of Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a type of cancer of the blood and bone marrow — the spongy tissue inside bones where blood cells are made.
The term "chronic" in chronic lymphocytic leukemia comes from the fact that this leukemia typically progresses more slowly than other types of leukemia. The term "lymphocytic" in chronic lymphocytic leukemia comes from the cells affected by the disease — a group of white blood cells called lymphocytes, which help your body fight infection.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia most commonly affects older adults. There are treatments to help control the disease.
There are no home remedies available for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia :
Many people with chronic lymphocytic leukemia have no symptoms at first. Signs and symptoms might develop as the cancer progresses. They might include:
Enlarged, but painless, lymph nodes
Fatigue
Fever
Pain in the upper left portion of the abdomen, which may be caused by an enlarged spleen
Night sweats
Weight loss
Frequent infections
Causes for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia :
Doctors aren't certain what starts the process that causes chronic lymphocytic leukemia. What's known is that something happens to cause changes (mutations) in the DNA of blood-producing cells. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the blood cells to produce abnormal, ineffective lymphocytes.
Beyond being ineffective, these abnormal lymphocytes continue to live and multiply when healthy lymphocytes would die. The abnormal lymphocytes accumulate in the blood and certain organs, where they cause complications. They may crowd healthy cells out of the bone marrow and interfere with blood cell production.
Doctors and researchers are working to understand the exact mechanism that causes chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Risk Factors for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:
Factors that may increase the risk of chronic lymphocytic leukemia include:
Your age. This disease occurs most often in older adults.
Your race. White people are more likely to develop chronic lymphocytic leukemia than are people of other races.
Family history of blood and bone marrow cancers. A family history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia or other blood and bone marrow cancers may increase your risk.
Exposure to chemicals. Certain herbicides and insecticides, including Agent Orange used during the Vietnam War, have been linked to an increased risk of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
A condition that causes excess lymphocytes. Monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) causes an increased number of one type of lymphocyte (B cells) in the blood. For a small number of people with MBL, the condition may develop into chronic lymphocytic leukemia. If you have MBL and also have a family history of chronic lymphocytic leukemia, you may have a higher risk of developing cancer.
Complications for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia:
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia may cause complications such as:
Frequent infections. If you have chronic lymphocytic leukemia, you may experience frequent infections that can be serious. Sometimes infections happen because your blood doesn't have enough germ-fighting antibodies (immunoglobulins). Your doctor might recommend regular immunoglobulin infusions.
A switch to a more aggressive form of cancer. A small number of people with chronic lymphocytic leukemia may develop a more aggressive form of cancer called diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Doctors sometimes refer to this as Richter's syndrome.
Increased risk of other cancers. People with chronic lymphocytic leukemia have an increased risk of other types of cancer, including skin cancer and cancers of the lung and the digestive tract.
Immune system problems. A small number of people with chronic lymphocytic leukemia may develop an immune system problem that causes the disease-fighting cells of the immune system to mistakenly attack the red blood cells (autoimmune hemolytic anemia) or the platelets (autoimmune thrombocytopenia).
There are no preventive measures available for Chronic lymphocytic leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic myelogenous leukemia
Overview of Chronic myelogenous leukemia:
Chronic myelogenous leukemia, also called CML, is an uncommon type of cancer of the bone marrow. Bone marrow is the spongy tissue inside bones where blood cells are made. CML causes an increased number of white blood cells in the blood.
The term "chronic" in chronic myelogenous leukemia means this cancer tends to progress more slowly than severe forms of leukemia. The term "myelogenous" (my-uh-LOHJ-uh-nus) refers to the type of cells affected by this cancer.
Chronic myelogenous leukemia also can be called chronic myeloid leukemia and chronic granulocytic leukemia. It typically affects older adults and rarely occurs in children, though it can occur at any age.
Advances in treatment have improved the prognosis of people with chronic myelogenous leukemia. Most people can achieve remission and live for many years after diagnosis.
Home Remedies for Chronic myelogenous leukemia:
For many people, chronic myelogenous leukemia is a disease they will live with for years. Many will continue treatment with targeted therapy indefinitely. Some days, you may feel sick even if you don't look sick. And some days, you may just be sick of having cancer. Try these self-care measures to help you adjust and cope with a chronic illness:
Talk to your health care provider about your side effects. Powerful cancer medicines can cause many side effects. Those side effects often can be managed with other medicines or treatments. You don't have to handle them without help.
Don't stop treatment on your own. If you develop side effects, such as skin rashes or fatigue, don't quit your medicines without talking to your health care provider. Likewise, don't stop taking your medicines if you feel better and think your disease may be gone. If you stop taking medicines, your disease can quickly return, even if you've been in remission.
Ask for help if you're having trouble coping. Having a chronic condition can be emotionally overwhelming. Tell your provider about your feelings. Ask for a referral to a counselor or another specialist with whom you can talk.
Symptoms for Chronic myelogenous leukemia :
Chronic myelogenous leukemia often doesn't cause symptoms. It might be detected during a blood test.
When they occur, symptoms may include:
Bone pain.
Bleeding easily.
Feeling full after eating a small amount of food.
Fatigue.
Fever.
Weight loss without trying.
Loss of appetite.
Pain or fullness below the ribs on the left side.
Excessive sweating during sleep.
Blurry vision caused by bleeding in the back of the eye.
Causes for Chronic myelogenous leukemia :
Chronic myelogenous leukemia happens when something causes changes to the bone marrow cells. It's not clear what starts this process. However, doctors have discovered how it progresses into chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Risk Factors for Chronic myelogenous leukemia:
Factors that increase the risk of chronic myelogenous leukemia include:
Older age. CML is more common in older people than in children and teens.
Being male. Men are slightly more at risk of developing CML than are women.
Radiation exposure. Radiation therapy for certain types of cancer has been linked to CML.
There's no way to prevent chronic myelogenous leukemia. If you get it, there's nothing you could have done to prevent it.
There are no Complications available for Chronic myelogenous leukemia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chronic myelogenous leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic pelvic pain
Overview of Chronic pelvic pain:
Chronic pelvic pain is pain in the area below the bellybutton and between the hips that lasts six months or longer.
Chronic pelvic pain can have more than one cause. It may be a symptom of another disease, or it can be a condition in its own right.
If chronic pelvic pain seems to be caused by another health condition, treating that problem may get rid of the pain.
But tests may not be able to find a cause for chronic pelvic pain. In that case, the goal of treatment is to ease pain and other symptoms. That could make your quality of life better.
Home Remedies for Chronic pelvic pain:
Long-term pain can have a major impact on your daily life. When you're in pain, you may have trouble sleeping, exercising or doing everyday tasks.
Long-term pain also can cause anxiety and stress. And these might make your pain worse.
Relaxation techniques such as meditation and deep breathing may help you get some relief. They can help release tension, ease pain, calm emotions and help you fall asleep.
Other lifestyle changes also may help ease chronic pelvic pain:
Practice good posture.
Lose extra weight. This may lower the risk of straining joints and muscles in the pelvis.
Get regular exercise. Do an activity you enjoy, and pace yourself. Talk to your doctor first if working out causes pain.
Symptoms for Chronic pelvic pain :
You may feel chronic pelvic pain in different parts of your pelvic area, rather than in just one spot. You might describe the pain in one or more of the following ways:
Serious and steady.
Pain that comes and goes.
Dull aching.
Sharp pains or cramping.
Pressure or heaviness deep within the pelvis.
The pain also may happen:
During sex.
While having a bowel movement or urinating.
When you sit or stand for a long time.
Chronic pelvic pain may be mild. Or it may be so intense that you miss work and can't sleep or exercise.
Other symptoms can include:
An urgent or frequent need to urinate.
Bloating.
Upset stomach.
Constipation or diarrhea.
Causes for Chronic pelvic pain :
Chronic pelvic pain is a complex health problem. Sometimes, tests may find that a single disease is the cause. In other cases, the pain may stem from more than one medical condition. For example, you might have endometriosis and interstitial cystitis, both of which play a role in chronic pelvic pain.
Some causes of chronic pelvic pain include:
Endometriosis. This is a disease where tissue that's like the lining of the uterus grows outside the uterus. It may cause pain or infertility.
Muscle and bone problems. Health issues that affect bones, joints and connective tissues can lead to pelvic pain that keeps coming back. These problems include fibromyalgia, tension in pelvic floor muscles, swelling of the pubic joint or a hernia.
Chronic pelvic inflammatory disease. This can happen if a long-term infection, often spread through sex, causes scarring that involves the pelvic organs.
Ovarian remnant. After surgery to remove one or both ovaries, a small piece of ovary may be left inside by mistake. Later, this leftover tissue may form painful cysts.
Fibroids. These growths inside, on or attached to the uterus aren't cancer. But they may cause pressure or a feeling of heaviness in the lower stomach area or lower back. Rarely, they cause sharp pain.
Irritable bowel syndrome. Symptoms linked with irritable bowel syndrome — bloating, constipation or diarrhea — can be a source of pelvic pain and pressure.
Painful bladder syndrome. This also is called interstitial cystitis. It's linked with pain in the bladder that keeps coming back. It's also tied to a frequent need to urinate. You may have pelvic pain as your bladder fills. The pain may get better for a while after you empty your bladder.
Pelvic congestion syndrome. Enlarged, varicose-type veins around the uterus and ovaries can lead to pelvic pain.
Mental health risk factors. Depression, long-term stress, or a history of sexual or physical abuse may raise your risk of chronic pelvic pain. Emotional distress can make pain worse. And long-term pain can fuel distress. These two factors often become a vicious cycle.
Risk Factors for Chronic pelvic pain:
Many conditions are linked to chronic pelvic pain. Having more than one condition that causes pelvic pain, such as endometriosis and fibroids, raises the risk. A history of sexual or physical abuse also may raise the risk.
There are no Complications available for Chronic pelvic pain in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Chronic pelvic pain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Chronic sinusitis
Overview of Chronic sinusitis:
Chronic sinusitis causes the spaces inside the nose and head, called sinuses, to become inflamed and swollen. The condition lasts 12 weeks or longer, even with treatment.
This common condition keeps mucus from draining. It makes the nose stuffy. Breathing through the nose might be hard. The area around the eyes might feel swollen or tender.
Infection, growths in the sinuses, called nasal polyps, and swelling of the lining of the sinuses might all be part of chronic sinusitis. Chronic sinusitis is also called chronic rhinosinusitis. The condition affects adults and children.
Home Remedies for Chronic sinusitis:
Neti pot
Enlarge image
These self-help steps can help ease sinusitis symptoms:
Rest. Rest helps the body fight infection and speed recovery.
Drink fluids. Keep drinking plenty of fluids.
Use a warm compress. A warm compress on the nose and forehead might help ease pressure in the sinuses.
Keep sinuses moist. Put a towel over your head while breathing in the vapor from a bowl of hot water. Or take a hot shower, breathing in the warm, moist air. This will help ease pain and help mucus drain.
Symptoms for Chronic sinusitis :
Common symptoms of chronic sinusitis include:
Thick, discolored mucus from the nose, known as a runny nose.
Mucus down the back of the throat, known as postnasal drip.
Blocked or stuffy nose, known as congestion. This makes it hard to breathe through the nose.
Pain, tenderness and swelling around the eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead.
Reduced sense of smell and taste.
Other symptoms can include:
Ear pain.
Headache.
Aching in the teeth.
Cough.
Sore throat.
Bad breath.
Tiredness.
Chronic sinusitis and acute sinusitis have similar symptoms. But acute sinusitis is a short-lived infection of the sinuses often linked to a cold.
The symptoms of chronic sinusitis last at least 12 weeks. There might be many bouts of acute sinusitis before it becomes chronic sinusitis. Fever isn't common with chronic sinusitis. But fever might be part of acute sinusitis.
Causes for Chronic sinusitis :
The cause of chronic sinusitis usually is not known. Some medical conditions, including cystic fibrosis, can cause chronic sinusitis in children and teens.
Some conditions can make chronic sinusitis worse. These include:
A common cold or other infection that affects the sinuses. Viruses or bacteria can cause these infections.
A problem inside the nose, such as a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps or tumors.
Risk Factors for Chronic sinusitis:
The following factors raise the risk of getting chronic sinusitis:
A dental infection.
A fungal infection.
Regularly being around cigarette smoke or other pollutants.
Complications for Chronic sinusitis:
Serious complications of chronic sinusitis are rare. They can include:
Vision problems. If a sinus infection spreads to an eye socket, it can reduce vision or possibly cause blindness.
Infections. It's not common. But a serious sinus infection can spread to the membranes and fluid around the brain and spinal cord. The infection is called meningitis. Other serious infections can spread to the bones, called osteomyelitis, or to skin, called cellulitis.
Preventions for Chronic sinusitis
Take these steps to lower the risk of getting chronic sinusitis:
Protect your health. Try to stay away from people who have colds or other infections. Wash your hands often with soap and water, especially before meals.
Manage allergies. Work with your health care provider to keep symptoms under control. Stay away from things you're allergic to when possible.
Avoid cigarette smoke and polluted air. Tobacco smoke and other pollutants can irritate the lungs and inside the nose, called the nasal passages.
Use a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, adding moisture to the air with a humidifier may help prevent sinusitis. Be sure the humidifier stays clean and free of mold with regular, complete cleaning.
Condition name:Chronic traumatic encephalopathy
Overview of Chronic traumatic encephalopathy:
Chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) is a brain disorder likely caused by repeated head injuries. It causes the death of nerve cells in the brain, known as degeneration. CTE gets worse over time. The only way to definitively diagnosis CTE is after death during an autopsy of the brain.
CTE is a rare disorder that is not yet well understood. CTE doesn't appear to be related to a single head injury. It's related to repeated head injuries, often occurring in contact sports or military combat. The development of CTE has been associated with second impact syndrome, in which a second head injury happens before previous head injury symptoms have fully resolved.
Experts are still trying to understand how repeated head injuries and other factors might contribute to the changes in the brain that result in CTE. Researchers are looking into how the number of head injuries someone experiences and how bad the injuries are may affect risk of CTE.
CTE has been found in the brains of people who played U.S. football and other contact sports, including boxing. It also may occur in military members who were exposed to explosive blasts. Symptoms of CTE are thought to include trouble with thinking and emotions, physical problems, and other behaviors. It's thought that these develop years to decades after head trauma occurs.
CTE can't be definitively diagnosed during life except in people with high-risk exposures. Researchers are currently developing diagnostic biomarkers for CTE, but none has been validated yet. When the symptoms associated with CTE occur, health care providers may diagnose traumatic encephalopathy syndrome.
Experts don't yet know how often CTE occurs in the population, but it appears to be rare. They also don't fully understand the causes. There is no cure for CTE.
There are no home remedies available for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy :
There are no specific symptoms that have been clearly linked to CTE. Some of the possible symptoms can occur in many other conditions. In the people who were confirmed to have CTE at autopsy, symptoms have included cognitive, behavioral, mood and motor changes.
Causes for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy :
Repeated head trauma is likely the cause of CTE. Football players in the United States, ice hockey players and military members serving in war zones have been the focus of most CTE studies. However, other sports and factors such as physical abuse also can lead to repeated head injuries.
A head injury can cause a concussion, which may cause headaches, problems with memory and other symptoms. Not everyone who experiences repeated concussions, including athletes and military members, go on to develop CTE. Some studies have shown no increased incidence of CTE in people exposed to repeated head injuries.
In brains with CTE, researchers have found that there is a buildup of a protein called tau around the blood vessels. Tau buildup in CTE is different from accumulations of tau found in Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. CTE is thought to cause areas of the brain to waste away, known as atrophy. This happens because injuries to nerve cells that conduct electrical impulses affect communication between cells.
It's possible that people with CTE may show signs of another neurodegenerative disease, including Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease or frontotemporal lobar degeneration, also known as frontotemporal dementia.
Risk Factors for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy:
Repeated exposure to traumatic brain injury is thought to increase the risk of CTE. Experts are still learning about the risk factors.
There are no Complications available for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy in the knowledge basePreventions for Chronic traumatic encephalopathy
There is no treatment for CTE. But CTE may be prevented because it's associated with recurrent concussions. People who have had one concussion are more likely to have another head injury. The current recommendation to prevent CTE is to reduce mild traumatic brain injuries and to prevent additional injury after a concussion.
Condition name:Cirrhosis
Overview of Cirrhosis:
Cirrhosis is severe scarring of the liver. This serious condition can be caused by many forms of liver diseases and conditions, such as hepatitis or chronic alcoholism.
Each time your liver is injured — whether by excessive alcohol consumption or another cause, such as infection — it tries to repair itself. In the process, scar tissue forms. As cirrhosis gets worse, more and more scar tissue forms, making it difficult for the liver to do its job. Advanced cirrhosis is life-threatening.
The liver damage caused by cirrhosis generally can't be undone. But if liver cirrhosis is diagnosed early and the underlying cause is treated, further damage can be limited. In rare cases, it may be reversed.
Home Remedies for Cirrhosis:
If you have cirrhosis, be careful to limit additional liver damage:
Don't drink alcohol. Whether your cirrhosis was caused by chronic alcohol use or another disease, don't drink alcohol. Drinking alcohol may cause further liver damage.
Eat a low-sodium diet. Excess salt can cause your body to retain fluids, worsening swelling in your abdomen and legs. Use herbs for seasoning your food, rather than salt. Choose prepared foods that are low in sodium.
Eat a healthy diet. People with cirrhosis can experience malnutrition. Combat this with a healthy diet that includes a variety of fruits and vegetables. Choose lean protein, such as legumes, poultry or fish. Don't eat raw seafood.
Protect yourself from infections. Cirrhosis makes it more difficult for you to fight off infections. Protect yourself by avoiding people who are sick and washing your hands frequently. Get vaccinated for hepatitis A and B, influenza, and pneumonia.
Use over-the-counter medicines carefully. Cirrhosis makes it more difficult for your liver to process medicines. For this reason, ask your provider before taking any medicines, including nonprescription ones. Don't take aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others). If you have liver damage, your provider may recommend that you not take acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or take it in low doses for pain relief.
Symptoms for Cirrhosis :
Cirrhosis often has no symptoms until liver damage is severe. When symptoms do occur, they may include:
Fatigue.
Easily bleeding or bruising.
Loss of appetite.
Nausea.
Swelling in the legs, feet or ankles, called edema.
Weight loss.
Itchy skin.
Yellow discoloration in the skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Fluid accumulation in the abdomen, called ascites (uh-SAHY-teez).
Spiderlike blood vessels on the skin.
Redness in the palms of the hands.
Pale fingernails, especially the thumb and index finger.
Clubbing of the fingers, in which the fingertips spread out and become rounder than usual.
For women, absence of or loss of periods not related to menopause.
For men, loss of sex drive, testicular shrinkage or breast enlargement, known as gynecomastia.
Confusion, drowsiness or slurred speech.
Causes for Cirrhosis :
A wide range of diseases and conditions can damage the liver and lead to cirrhosis.
Some of the causes include:
Long-term alcohol abuse.
Ongoing viral hepatitis (hepatitis B, C and D).
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, a condition in which fat accumulates in the liver.
Hemochromatosis, a condition that causes iron buildup in the body.
Autoimmune hepatitis, which is a liver disease caused by the body's immune system.
Destruction of the bile ducts caused by primary biliary cholangitis.
Hardening and scarring of the bile ducts caused by primary sclerosing cholangitis.
Wilson's disease, a condition in which copper accumulates in the liver.
Cystic fibrosis.
Alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency.
Poorly formed bile ducts, a condition known as biliary atresia.
Inherited disorders of sugar metabolism, such as galactosemia or glycogen storage disease.
Alagille syndrome, a genetic digestive disorder.
Infection, such as syphilis or brucellosis.
Medications, including methotrexate or isoniazid.
Risk Factors for Cirrhosis:
Drinking too much alcohol. Excessive alcohol consumption is a risk factor for cirrhosis.
Being overweight. Being obese increases your risk of conditions that may lead to cirrhosis, such as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
Having viral hepatitis. Not everyone with chronic hepatitis will develop cirrhosis, but it's one of the world's leading causes of liver disease.
Complications for Cirrhosis:
Complications of cirrhosis can include:
High blood pressure in the veins that supply the liver. This condition is known as portal hypertension. Cirrhosis slows the regular flow of blood through the liver. This increases pressure in the vein that brings blood to the liver.
Swelling in the legs and abdomen. The increased pressure in the portal vein can cause fluid to accumulate in the legs, called edema, and in the abdomen, called ascites. Edema and ascites also may happen if the liver can't make enough of certain blood proteins, such as albumin.
Enlargement of the spleen. Portal hypertension can cause the spleen to trap white blood cells and platelets. This makes the spleen swell, a condition known as splenomegaly. Fewer white blood cells and platelets in your blood can be the first sign of cirrhosis.
Bleeding. Portal hypertension can cause blood to be redirected to smaller veins. Strained by the extra pressure, these smaller veins can burst, causing serious bleeding. Portal hypertension also may cause enlarged veins, called varices (VAIR-uh-seez), in the esophagus or the stomach. These varices also may lead to life-threatening bleeding. If the liver can't make enough clotting factors, this also can contribute to continued bleeding.
Infections. If you have cirrhosis, your body may have a hard time fighting infections. Ascites can lead to bacterial peritonitis, a serious infection.
Malnutrition. Cirrhosis may make it more difficult for your body to process nutrients, leading to weakness and weight loss.
Buildup of toxins in the brain. A liver damaged by cirrhosis can't clear toxins from the blood as well as a healthy liver can. These toxins can then build up in the brain and cause mental confusion and difficulty concentrating. This is known as hepatic encephalopathy. With time, hepatic encephalopathy can progress to unresponsiveness or coma.
Jaundice. Jaundice occurs when the diseased liver doesn't remove enough bilirubin, a blood waste product, from your blood. Jaundice causes yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes and darkening of urine.
Bone disease. Some people with cirrhosis lose bone strength and are at greater risk of fractures.
Increased risk of liver cancer. A large proportion of people who develop liver cancer have pre-existing cirrhosis.
Acute-on-chronic cirrhosis. Some people end up experiencing multiorgan failure. Researchers now believe this is a complication in some people who have cirrhosis. However, they don't fully understand what causes it.
Preventions for Cirrhosis
Lower your risk of cirrhosis by taking these steps to care for your liver:
Do not drink alcohol if you have cirrhosis. If you have liver disease, you should not drink alcohol.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a diet that's full of fruits and vegetables. Select whole grains and lean sources of protein. Cut down on the amount of fatty and fried foods you eat.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much body fat can damage your liver. Talk to your health care provider about a weight-loss plan if you are obese or overweight.
Reduce your risk of hepatitis. Sharing needles and having unprotected sex can increase your risk of hepatitis B and C. Ask your provider about hepatitis vaccinations.
If you're concerned about your risk of liver cirrhosis, talk to your health care provider about ways you can reduce your risk.
Condition name:Cleft lip and cleft palate
Overview of Cleft lip and cleft palate:
Cleft lip and cleft palate are openings or splits in the upper lip, the roof of the mouth (palate) or both. Cleft lip and cleft palate result when facial structures that are developing in an unborn baby don't close completely.
Cleft lip and cleft palate are among the most common birth defects. They most commonly occur as isolated birth defects but are also associated with many inherited genetic conditions or syndromes.
Having a baby born with a cleft can be upsetting, but cleft lip and cleft palate can be corrected. In most babies, a series of surgeries can restore normal function and achieve a more normal appearance with minimal scarring.
There are no home remedies available for Cleft lip and cleft palate in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cleft lip and cleft palate :
Usually, a split (cleft) in the lip or palate is immediately identifiable at birth. Cleft lip and cleft palate may appear as:
A split in the lip and roof of the mouth (palate) that affects one or both sides of the face
A split in the lip that appears as only a small notch in the lip or extends from the lip through the upper gum and palate into the bottom of the nose
A split in the roof of the mouth that doesn't affect the appearance of the face
Less commonly, a cleft occurs only in the muscles of the soft palate (submucous cleft palate), which are at the back of the mouth and covered by the mouth's lining. This type of cleft often goes unnoticed at birth and may not be diagnosed until later when signs develop. Signs and symptoms of submucous cleft palate may include:
Difficulty with feedings
Difficulty swallowing, with potential for liquids or foods to come out the nose
Nasal speaking voice
Chronic ear infections
Causes for Cleft lip and cleft palate :
Cleft lip and cleft palate occur when tissues in the baby's face and mouth don't fuse properly. Normally, the tissues that make up the lip and palate fuse together in the second and third months of pregnancy. But in babies with cleft lip and cleft palate, the fusion never takes place or occurs only part way, leaving an opening (cleft).
Researchers believe that most cases of cleft lip and cleft palate are caused by an interaction of genetic and environmental factors. In many babies, a definite cause isn't discovered.
The mother or the father can pass on genes that cause clefting, either alone or as part of a genetic syndrome that includes a cleft lip or cleft palate as one of its signs. In some cases, babies inherit a gene that makes them more likely to develop a cleft, and then an environmental trigger actually causes the cleft to occur.
Risk Factors for Cleft lip and cleft palate:
Several factors may increase the likelihood of a baby developing a cleft lip and cleft palate, including:
Family history. Parents with a family history of cleft lip or cleft palate face a higher risk of having a baby with a cleft.
Exposure to certain substances during pregnancy. Cleft lip and cleft palate may be more likely to occur in pregnant women who smoke cigarettes, drink alcohol or take certain medications.
Having diabetes. There is some evidence that women diagnosed with diabetes before pregnancy may have an increased risk of having a baby with a cleft lip with or without a cleft palate.
Being obese during pregnancy. There is some evidence that babies born to obese women may have increased risk of cleft lip and palate.
Males are more likely to have a cleft lip with or without cleft palate. Cleft palate without cleft lip is more common in females. In the United States, cleft lip and palate are reportedly most common in Native Americans and least common in African-Americans.
Complications for Cleft lip and cleft palate:
Children with cleft lip with or without cleft palate face a variety of challenges, depending on the type and severity of the cleft.
Difficulty feeding. One of the most immediate concerns after birth is feeding. While most babies with cleft lip can breast-feed, a cleft palate may make sucking difficult.
Ear infections and hearing loss. Babies with cleft palate are especially at risk of developing middle ear fluid and hearing loss.
Dental problems. If the cleft extends through the upper gum, tooth development may be affected.
Speech difficulties. Because the palate is used in forming sounds, the development of normal speech can be affected by a cleft palate. Speech may sound too nasal.
Challenges of coping with a medical condition. Children with clefts may face social, emotional and behavioral problems due to differences in appearance and the stress of intensive medical care.
Preventions for Cleft lip and cleft palate
After a baby is born with a cleft, parents are understandably concerned about the possibility of having another child with the same condition. While many cases of cleft lip and cleft palate can't be prevented, consider these steps to increase your understanding or lower your risk:
Consider genetic counseling. If you have a family history of cleft lip and cleft palate, tell your doctor before you become pregnant. Your doctor may refer you to a genetic counselor who can help determine your risk of having children with cleft lip and cleft palate.
Take prenatal vitamins. If you're planning to get pregnant soon, ask your doctor if you should take prenatal vitamins.
Don't use tobacco or alcohol. Use of alcohol or tobacco during pregnancy increases the risk of having a baby with a birth defect.
Condition name:Clubfoot
Overview of Clubfoot:
Clubfoot describes a condition present at birth in which a baby's foot is pointed in and down. The tissues connecting the muscles to the bone are called tendons. In clubfoot, the tendons are shorter than usual, pulling the foot out of position.
Also called congenital talipes equinovarus (TAL-ih-peez e-kwie-no-VAY-rus), clubfoot is a common foot condition. It can occur in up to 1 in 1,000 babies. Most newborns with clubfoot do not have other medical conditions.
Clubfoot can be mild to severe. About half of children with clubfoot have it in both feet. If a child has clubfoot that is not treated, the child may walk on the side or top of the foot. This can cause a limp, skin sores or calluses, and problems wearing shoes.
Clubfoot will not get better without treatment. But it can be successfully treated using a specific casting technique. Usually, babies also need a minor procedure to lengthen the heel tendon. Treatment results are best with casting that begins within several weeks after birth.
There are no home remedies available for Clubfoot in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Clubfoot :
If your child has clubfoot, here's what it might look like:
The top of the foot is usually pointed in and down. This raises the arch and turns the heel inward.
The foot may be turned so severely that it looks like it is upside down.
The foot or big toe may be slightly shorter than the other foot.
The calf muscles in the leg with clubfoot are usually smaller.
At birth, clubfoot doesn't cause any discomfort or pain.
Causes for Clubfoot :
The cause of clubfoot is not known, but it may be due to genetics and environmental factors.
Risk Factors for Clubfoot:
Boys are about twice as likely as girls to have clubfoot.
Risk factors include:
Family history. If a child has a parent, brother or sister with clubfoot, that child is more likely to have it too.
Part of other conditions. Sometimes clubfoot may happen with other skeletal conditions that are present at birth. One example is spina bifida, a condition that happens when the spine and spinal cord don't develop or close properly before birth. Certain conditions related to changes in chromosomes also may raise the risk of clubfoot.
Environment. Smoking during pregnancy can raise the baby's risk of clubfoot.
Not enough amniotic fluid during pregnancy. Amniotic fluid is the liquid that surrounds the baby in the womb. Not having enough amniotic fluid may raise the risk of clubfoot.
Complications for Clubfoot:
Clubfoot usually doesn't cause any problems until a child starts to stand and walk. Treatment can bring the foot into the proper position and help a child walk well. But a child may still have some problems with:
Movement. The foot may be a little stiff and not bend easily.
Leg length. The leg with clubfoot may be slightly shorter, but this usually doesn't stop a child from learning to walk.
Shoe size. The foot may be up to 1 1/2 shoe sizes smaller than the other foot.
Calf size. The muscles of the calf on the side with clubfoot may always be smaller than those on the other side.
Foot shape. It's common for the foot to have a bean shape and a small inward point, even after treatment.
If clubfoot is not treated, more-serious problems can happen. These can include:
Problems walking. When clubfoot is not treated, children with the condition can walk but may put their weight on the side of the foot or the top of the foot. This can cause sores or calluses, problems finding shoes, and a limp.
Problems with late treatment. Delayed treatment of clubfoot can result in needing more casts and even surgery to correct the foot. Results are better with early treatment before the bones of the foot become misshapen from the poor foot position.
Arthritis. There may be swelling and tenderness in one or more joints.
Poor self-image. The unusual look of the foot may make body image a concern during the teen years.
Preventions for Clubfoot
Because healthcare professionals don't know what causes clubfoot, there's no sure way to prevent it. But if you're pregnant, you can do things to have a healthy pregnancy and lower your baby's risk of problems that affect the baby's development:
Don't smoke or spend time in places with secondhand smoke.
Don't drink alcohol.
Don't use legal or illegal drugs that may be sold on the streets or take medicines that aren't approved by your healthcare professional.
Condition name:Cluster headache
Overview of Cluster headache:
Cluster headache is a very painful type of headache. It usually occurs in periods of frequent attacks known as clusters. Cluster headaches can wake people from sleep. These headaches cause intense pain in or around one eye on one side of the head.
Cluster periods can last from weeks to months. Then usually the headaches stop for a period of time, which may last for months or years.
Cluster headache is rare. Treatments can shorten cluster headache attacks and lessen the pain. Also, medicines can reduce the number of cluster headaches.
Home Remedies for Cluster headache:
To avoid a cluster headache attack during a cluster period, try the following:
Stick to a regular sleep schedule. During a cluster period, don't change when and how long you sleep. Sleep changes can trigger cluster headaches.
Avoid alcohol. Drinking alcohol, including beer and wine, can trigger a headache during a cluster period.
Symptoms for Cluster headache :
Not found
Causes for Cluster headache :
Experts don't know what causes cluster headache. Cluster headache patterns suggest a link to the area of the brain that helps run the body's biological clock, known as the hypothalamus.
Risk Factors for Cluster headache:
Risk factors for cluster headache include:
Sex. Men are more likely to have cluster headaches than women are.
Age. Most people who develop cluster headaches are between ages 20 and 50. But the condition can start at any age.
Smoking. Many people who get cluster headaches are smokers. But quitting smoking usually doesn't stop the headaches.
Alcohol use. If you have cluster headaches, drinking alcohol during a cluster period may increase the risk of an attack.
Family history. Having a parent, brother or sister who has cluster headache might increase the risk.
There are no Complications available for Cluster headache in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Cluster headache in the knowledge baseCondition name:Coarctation of the aorta
Overview of Coarctation of the aorta:
Aortic coarctation (ko-ahrk-TAY-shun) is a narrowing of a part of the body's main artery, called the aorta. The condition forces the heart to work harder to pump blood.
Coarctation of the aorta is usually present at birth. That means it is a congenital heart defect. But sometimes the condition can occur later in life.
Coarctation of the aorta often occurs along with other congenital heart defects. Treatment to fix the condition is usually successful. But regular health checkups are needed for life to watch for changes in the heart's health.
Home Remedies for Coarctation of the aorta:
People who had coarctation of the aorta need to take steps to control blood pressure and watch for complications. Follow these tips:
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise helps lower blood pressure. Talk with your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you. Some physical activities, such as weight lifting, can temporarily raise blood pressure.
Talk with your healthcare team before getting pregnant. Coarctation of the aorta, even after it's fixed, may increase the risk of an aortic tear or rupture during pregnancy and childbirth. Before becoming pregnant, talk with a doctor trained in congenital heart diseases, called an adult congenital cardiologist. Together you can go over the possible risks and complications.
Prevent heart infections. Bacteria can affect the inner lining of the heart or valves, causing an infection called endocarditis. People with some heart conditions may need to take antibiotics before dental work to prevent this infection. Ask your healthcare professional whether you need preventive antibiotics.
Symptoms for Coarctation of the aorta :
Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta depend on how much of the aorta is narrowed. Most people don't have symptoms.
Adults and older children with mild coarctation of the aorta may not have symptoms and their hearts may seem healthy.
If a baby is born with an extreme narrowing of the aorta, symptoms may be noticed shortly after birth. Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta in infants include:
Difficulty breathing.
Difficulty feeding.
Heavy sweating.
Irritability.
Changes in skin color.
Symptoms of coarctation of the aorta later in life may include:
Chest pain.
High blood pressure.
Headaches.
Muscle weakness.
Leg cramps.
Cold feet.
Nosebleeds.
Coarctation of the aorta often occurs with other heart conditions present at birth. Other symptoms depend on the specific types of congenital heart defects.
Causes for Coarctation of the aorta :
The cause of coarctation of the aorta is unclear. It's usually a heart problem present at birth, called a congenital heart defect. A congenital heart defect happens as the baby is growing in the womb during pregnancy. The cause is often unknown.
Rarely, coarctation of the aorta can happen later in life. Conditions or events that can narrow the aorta and cause this condition include:
Traumatic injury.
An extreme buildup of cholesterols and fats in the arteries, called atherosclerosis.
A rare type of swelling and irritation of blood vessels in the heart, called Takayasu arteritis.
Risk Factors for Coarctation of the aorta:
Risk factors for coarctation of the aorta include:
Male sex.
Some genetic conditions, such as Turner syndrome.
Some heart conditions present at birth, called congenital heart defects.
Congenital heart defects associated with coarctation of the aorta include:
Bicuspid aortic valve. The aortic valve is between the body's main artery and the lower left heart chamber. If the aortic valve has only two flaps, called cusps, instead of the usual three, it's called a bicuspid valve.
Subaortic stenosis. This is a narrowing of the area below the aortic valve. It blocks blood flow from the lower left heart chamber to the aorta.
Patent ductus arteriosus. The ductus arteriosus is a blood vessel that connects the left lung artery to the aorta. When a baby is growing in the womb, this vessel lets blood go around the lungs. Shortly after birth, the ductus arteriosus usually closes. If it stays open, the opening is called a patent ductus arteriosus.
Holes in the heart. Some people with coarctation of the aorta also are born with a hole in the heart. If the hole is between the upper heart chambers, it is called an atrial septal defect. A hole between the lower heart chambers is called a ventricular septal defect.
Congenital mitral valve stenosis. This is a type of heart valve disease that some people are born with. The valve between the upper and lower left heart chambers is narrowed. It's harder for blood to move through the valve.
Complications for Coarctation of the aorta:
Complications of coarctation of the aorta happen because the left lower heart chamber has to work harder to pump blood through the narrowed artery. This makes blood pressure go up in the lower left heart chamber. Also, the wall of the chamber can get thick. This condition is called ventricular hypertrophy.
Complications of coarctation of the aorta include:
Long-term high blood pressure. Blood pressure usually drops after surgery to fix the aorta. But it may still be higher than usual.
A weakened or bulging artery in the brain, also known as a brain aneurysm.
Bleeding in the brain.
A rupture or tear in the body's main artery, called an aortic dissection.
A bulge in the wall of the body's main artery, called an aortic aneurysm.
Coronary artery disease.
Stroke.
Prompt treatment is needed to help prevent complications. Without treatment, coarctation of the aorta may lead to:
Kidney failure.
Heart failure.
Death.
Some people have complications after treatment for coarctation of the aorta. These complications include:
Re-narrowing of the aorta, called re-coarctation.
Aortic aneurysm or rupture.
To prevent complications, people with coarctation of the aorta need regular health checkups for life.
Preventions for Coarctation of the aorta
There's no known way to prevent coarctation of the aorta. Tell your healthcare team if you have a family history of heart conditions present at birth.
Condition name:Cold sore
Overview of Cold sore:
Cold sores, or fever blisters, are a common viral infection. They are tiny, fluid-filled blisters on and around the lips. These blisters are often grouped together in patches. After the blisters break, a scab forms that can last several days. Cold sores usually heal in 2 to 3 weeks without leaving a scar.
Cold sores spread from person to person by close contact, such as kissing. They're usually caused by herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), and less commonly herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2). Both of these viruses can affect the mouth or genitals and can be spread by oral sex. The virus can spread even if you don't see the sores.
There's no cure for cold sores, but treatment can help manage outbreaks. Prescription antiviral medicine or creams can help sores heal more quickly. And they may make future outbreaks happen less often and be shorter and less serious.
Home Remedies for Cold sore:
The cold sore ointment docosanol (Abreva) may shorten the healing time of a cold sore. At the first sign of symptoms, apply it to the affected skin as directed on the package. Use a cotton-tipped swab to put medicine on a cold sore. This helps prevent the spread of the sores to other parts of the body.
To ease the discomfort of a cold sore:
Try other cold sore remedies. Some nonprescription products contain a drying agent, such as alcohol, that may speed healing.
Use lip balms and cream. Protect your lips from the sun with a zinc oxide cream or lip balm with sunblock. If your lips become dry, apply a moisturizing cream.
Apply a compress. A cold, damp cloth may ease symptoms and help remove crusting. Or try using a warm cloth on the blisters to ease pain.
Rest and try pain relievers. Take nonprescription pain medicine if you have a fever or the cold sore is painful. Creams with lidocaine or benzocaine may offer some pain relief.
Symptoms for Cold sore :
A cold sore usually passes through several stages:
Tingling and itching. Many people feel itching, burning or tingling around the lips for a day or so before a small, hard, painful spot appears and blisters form.
Blisters. Small fluid-filled blisters often form along the border of the lips. Sometimes they appear around the nose or cheeks or inside the mouth.
Oozing and crusting. The small blisters may merge and then burst. This can leave shallow open sores that ooze and crust over.
Symptoms vary, depending on whether this is your first outbreak or a recurrence. The first time you have a cold sore, symptoms may not start for up to 20 days after you were first exposed to the virus. The sores can last several days. And the blisters can take 2 to 3 weeks to heal completely. If blisters return, they'll often appear at the same spot each time and tend to be less severe than the first outbreak.
In a first-time outbreak, you also might experience:
Fever.
Painful gums.
Sore throat.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Swollen lymph nodes.
Children under 5 years old may have cold sores inside their mouths. These sores are often mistaken for canker sores. Canker sores involve only the mucous membrane and aren't caused by the herpes simplex virus.
Causes for Cold sore :
Cold sores are caused by certain strains of the herpes simplex virus (HSV). HSV-1 usually causes cold sores. HSV-2 is often the cause of genital herpes. But either type can spread to the face or genitals through close contact, such as kissing or oral sex. Shared eating utensils, razors and towels can also spread HSV-1.
Cold sores are most likely to spread when you have oozing blisters. But you can spread the virus even if you don't have blisters. Many people who are infected with the virus that causes cold sores never develop symptoms.
Once you've had a herpes infection, the virus can hide in nerve cells in the skin and may cause another cold sore at the same place as before. A return of cold sores may be triggered by:
Viral infection or fever.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to a menstrual period.
Stress.
Fatigue.
Being in the sun or wind.
Changes in the immune system.
Injury to the skin.
Risk Factors for Cold sore:
Almost everyone is at risk of cold sores. Most adults carry the virus that causes cold sores, even if they've never had symptoms.
You're most at risk of complications from the virus if you have a weak immune system from conditions and treatments such as:
HIV/AIDS.
Atopic dermatitis (eczema).
Cancer chemotherapy.
Anti-rejection medicine for organ transplants.
Complications for Cold sore:
In some people, the virus that causes cold sores can cause problems in other areas of the body, including:
Fingertips. Both HSV-1 and HSV-2 can be spread to the fingers. This type of infection is often referred to as herpes whitlow. Children who suck their thumbs may transfer the infection from their mouths to their thumbs.
Eyes. The virus can sometimes cause eye infection. Repeated infections can cause scarring and injury, which may lead to vision problems or loss of vision.
Widespread areas of skin. People who have a skin condition called atopic dermatitis (eczema) are at higher risk of cold sores spreading all across their bodies. This can become a medical emergency.
Preventions for Cold sore
Your health care provider may prescribe an antiviral medicine for you to take on a regular basis if you develop cold sores more than nine times a year or if you're at high risk of serious complications. If sunlight seems to trigger your condition, apply sunblock to the spot where the cold sore tends to form. Or talk with your health care provider about using an oral antiviral medicine before you do an activity that tends to cause a cold sore to return.
Take these steps to help avoid spreading cold sores to other people:
Avoid kissing and skin contact with people while blisters are present. The virus spreads most easily when the blisters leak fluid.
Avoid sharing items. Utensils, towels, lip balm and other personal items can spread the virus when blisters are present.
Keep your hands clean. When you have a cold sore, wash your hands carefully before touching yourself and other people, especially babies.
Condition name:Colon cancer
Overview of Colon cancer:
Colon cancer is a growth of cells that begins in a part of the large intestine called the colon. The colon is the first and longest part of the large intestine. The large intestine is the last part of the digestive system. The digestive system breaks down food for the body to use.
Colon cancer typically affects older adults, though it can happen at any age. It usually begins as small clumps of cells called polyps that form inside the colon. Polyps generally aren't cancerous, but some can turn into colon cancers over time.
Polyps often don't cause symptoms. For this reason, doctors recommend regular screening tests to look for polyps in the colon. Finding and removing polyps helps prevent colon cancer.
If colon cancer develops, many treatments can help control it. Treatments include surgery, radiation therapy and medicines, such as chemotherapy, targeted therapy and immunotherapy.
Colon cancer is sometimes called colorectal cancer. This term combines colon cancer and rectal cancer, which begins in the rectum.
There are no home remedies available for Colon cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Colon cancer :
Many people with colon cancer don't have symptoms at first. When symptoms appear, they'll likely depend on the cancer's size and where it is in the large intestine.
Symptoms of colon cancer can include:
A change in bowel habits, such as more frequent diarrhea or constipation.
Rectal bleeding or blood in the stool.
Ongoing discomfort in the belly area, such as cramps, gas or pain.
A feeling that the bowel doesn't empty all the way during a bowel movement.
Weakness or tiredness.
Losing weight without trying.
Causes for Colon cancer :
Doctors aren't certain what causes most colon cancers.
Colon cancer happens when cells in the colon develop changes in their DNA. A cells' DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The changes let the cells continue living when healthy cells die as part of their natural lifecycle.
This causes too many cells. The cells might form a mass called a tumor. The cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Colon cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of colon cancer include:
Older age. Colon cancer can happen at any age. But most people with colon cancer are older than 50. The numbers of people younger than 50 who have colon cancer has been growing. Doctors don't know why.
Black race. Black people in the United States have a greater risk of colon cancer than do people of other races.
A personal history of colorectal cancer or polyps. Having had colon cancer or colon polyps increases the risk of colon cancer.
Inflammatory bowel diseases. Conditions that cause pain and swelling of the intestines, called inflammatory bowel diseases, can increase the risk of colon cancer. These conditions include ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Inherited syndromes that increase colon cancer risk. Some DNA changes that increase the risk of colon cancer run in families. The most common inherited syndromes that increase colon cancer risk are familial adenomatous polyposis and Lynch syndrome.
Family history of colon cancer. Having a blood relative who has colon cancer increases the risk of getting colon cancer. Having more than one family member who has colon cancer or rectal cancer increases the risk more.
Low-fiber, high-fat diet. Colon cancer and rectal cancer might be linked with a typical Western diet. This type of diet tends to be low in fiber and high in fat and calories. Research in this area has had mixed results. Some studies have found an increased risk of colon cancer in people who eat a lot of red meat and processed meat.
Not exercising regularly. People who are not active are more likely to develop colon cancer. Getting regular physical activity might help lower the risk.
Diabetes. People with diabetes or insulin resistance have an increased risk of colon cancer.
Obesity. People who are obese have an increased risk of colon cancer. Obesity also increases the risk of dying of colon cancer.
Smoking. People who smoke can have an increased risk of colon cancer.
Drinking alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can increase the risk of colon cancer.
Radiation therapy for cancer. Radiation therapy directed at the abdomen to treat previous cancers increases the risk of colon cancer.
There are no Complications available for Colon cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Colon cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Colon polyps
Overview of Colon polyps:
A colon polyp is a small clump of cells that forms on the lining of the colon. Most colon polyps are harmless. But over time, some colon polyps can develop into colon cancer. Colon cancer can be fatal when found in its later stages.
Anyone can develop colon polyps. You're at higher risk if you are 50 or older, are overweight or are a smoker. You're also at higher risk if you have a personal or family history of colon polyps or colon cancer.
Colon polyps don't usually cause symptoms. It's important to have regular screening tests because colon polyps found in the early stages can usually be removed safely and completely. The best prevention for colon cancer is regular screening for and removal of polyps.
There are no home remedies available for Colon polyps in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Colon polyps :
Most people with colon polyps do not have any symptoms. You might not know you have a polyp until your health care provider finds it during an exam of your colon.
However, some people with colon polyps may have:
Change in bowel habits. Constipation or diarrhea that lasts longer than a week may mean the presence of a larger colon polyp or cancer. However, several other conditions also can cause changes in bowel habits.
Change in stool color. Blood can show up as red streaks in your stool or make stool appear black. A change in color also may be caused by certain foods, medicines or dietary supplements.
Iron deficiency anemia. Bleeding from polyps can happen slowly over time, without visible blood in your stool. Chronic bleeding may lead to iron deficiency anemia, which can make you feel tired and short of breath.
Pain. A large colon polyp can block part of your bowel, leading to crampy abdominal pain.
Rectal bleeding. This can be a sign of colon polyps or cancer or other conditions, such as hemorrhoids or minor tears of the anus.
Causes for Colon polyps :
Healthy cells grow and divide in an orderly way. Changes in certain genes can cause cells to continue dividing even when new cells aren't needed. In the colon and rectum, this continued growth of cells can cause polyps to form. Polyps can grow anywhere in the large intestine.
There are two main categories of polyps, nonneoplastic and neoplastic. Nonneoplastic polyps typically do not become cancerous. Neoplastic polyps include adenomas and serrated types. Adenomas are the most likely to turn into cancer if given enough time to grow. Serrated polyps also may become cancerous, depending on their size and location. In general for neoplastic polyps, the larger the polyp, the greater the risk of cancer.
Risk Factors for Colon polyps:
Factors that might cause colon polyps or cancer include:
Age. Most people with colon polyps are 50 or older.
Having inflammatory intestinal conditions. Ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease of the colon increase your overall risk of colon cancer, although the polyps themselves are not a significant threat.
Family history. You're more likely to get colon polyps or cancer if you have a parent, sibling or child with them. If many family members have them, your risk is even greater. In some people, this connection isn't hereditary.
Smoking and excess alcohol use. Studies show that people who have three or more alcoholic drinks a day have an increased risk of getting colon polyps. Alcohol intake combined with smoking also appears to increase the risk.
Obesity, lack of exercise and fat intake. You're at a higher risk if you are overweight, don't exercise regularly and lack a healthy diet.
Race. Black Americans have a higher risk of developing colon cancer.
Complications for Colon polyps:
Some colon polyps may become cancerous. The earlier polyps are removed, the less likely it is that they will become cancerous.
Preventions for Colon polyps
You can greatly reduce your risk of colon polyps and colorectal cancer by having regular screenings. Certain lifestyle changes also can help:
Adopt healthy habits. Include plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains in your diet and reduce your fat intake. Limit alcohol and quit all tobacco use. Stay physically active and maintain a healthy body weight.
Talk to your health care provider about calcium and vitamin D. Studies have shown that increasing the intake of calcium may help prevent the return of colon adenomas. But it isn't clear whether calcium has any protective benefits against colon cancer. Other studies have shown that vitamin D may protect against colorectal cancer.
Consider your options if you're at high risk. If you have a family history of colon polyps, consider having genetic counseling. If you've been diagnosed with a hereditary disorder that causes colon polyps, you'll need regular colonoscopies starting in young adulthood.
Condition name:Color blindness
Overview of Color blindness:
Color blindness — or more accurately, poor or deficient color vision — is an inability to see the difference between certain colors. Though many people commonly use the term "color blind" for this condition, true color blindness — in which everything is seen in shades of black and white — is rare.
Color blindness is usually inherited. Men are more likely to be born with color blindness. Most people with color blindness can't distinguish between certain shades of red and green. Less commonly, people with color blindness can't distinguish between shades of blue and yellow.
Certain eye diseases and some medications also can cause color blindness.
Home Remedies for Color blindness:
Try the following tips to help you work around your color blindness.
Memorize the order of colored objects. If it's important to know individual colors, such as with traffic lights, memorize the order of the colors.
Label colored items that you want to match with other items. Have someone with good color vision help you sort and label your clothing. Arrange your clothes in your closet or drawers so that colors that can be worn together are near each other.
Use technology. There are apps for phones and digital devices that can help you identify colors.
Symptoms for Color blindness :
You may have a color vision deficiency and not know it. Some people figure out that they or their child has the condition when it causes confusion — such as when there are problems differentiating the colors in a traffic light or interpreting color-coded learning materials.
People affected by color blindness may not be able to distinguish:
Different shades of red and green
Different shades of blue and yellow
Any colors
The most common color deficiency is an inability to see some shades of red and green. Often, a person who is red-green or blue-yellow deficient isn't completely insensitive to both colors. Defects can be mild, moderate or severe.
Causes for Color blindness :
Seeing colors across the light spectrum is a complex process that begins with your eyes' ability to respond to different wavelengths of light.
Light, which contains all color wavelengths, enters your eye through the cornea and passes through the lens and transparent, jellylike tissue in your eye (vitreous humor) to wavelength-sensitive cells (cones) at the back of your eye in the macular area of the retina. The cones are sensitive to short (blue), medium (green) or long (red) wavelengths of light. Chemicals in the cones trigger a reaction and send the wavelength information through your optic nerve to your brain.
If your eyes are normal, you perceive color. But if your cones lack one or more wavelength-sensitive chemicals, you will be unable to distinguish the colors red, green or blue.
Color blindness has several causes:
Inherited disorder. Inherited color deficiencies are much more common in males than in females. The most common color deficiency is red-green, with blue-yellow deficiency being much less common. It is rare to have no color vision at all.
You can inherit a mild, moderate or severe degree of the disorder. Inherited color deficiencies usually affect both eyes, and the severity doesn't change over your lifetime.
Diseases. Some conditions that can cause color deficits are sickle cell anemia, diabetes, macular degeneration, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, glaucoma, Parkinson's disease, chronic alcoholism and leukemia. One eye may be more affected than the other, and the color deficit may get better if the underlying disease can be treated.
Certain medications. Some medications can alter color vision, such as some drugs that treat certain autoimmune diseases, heart problems, high blood pressure, erectile dysfunction, infections, nervous disorders and psychological problems.
Aging. Your ability to see colors deteriorates slowly as you age.
Chemicals. Exposure to some chemicals in the workplace, such as carbon disulfide and fertilizers, may cause loss of color vision.
There are no Risk Factors available for Color blindness in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Color blindness in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Color blindness in the knowledge baseCondition name:Coma
Overview of Coma:
Coma is a state of prolonged loss of consciousness. It can have a variety of causes, including traumatic head injury, stroke, brain tumor, or drug or alcohol intoxication. A coma may even be caused by an underlying illness, such as diabetes or an infection.
Coma is a medical emergency. Quick action is needed to preserve life and brain function. Health care providers typically order a series of blood tests and a brain scan to try to learn what's causing the coma so that proper treatment can begin.
A coma doesn't usually last longer than several weeks. People who are unconscious for a longer time might transition to a lasting vegetative state, known as a persistent vegetative state, or brain death.
There are no home remedies available for Coma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Coma :
The symptoms of a coma commonly include:
Closed eyes.
Depressed brainstem reflexes, such as pupils not responding to light.
No responses of limbs except for reflex movements.
No response to painful stimuli except for reflex movements.
Irregular breathing.
Causes for Coma :
Many types of problems can cause a coma. Some examples are:
Traumatic brain injuries. These are often caused by traffic collisions or acts of violence.
Stroke. Reduced or stopped blood supply to the brain, known as a stroke, can result from blocked arteries or a burst blood vessel.
Tumors. Tumors in the brain or brainstem can cause a coma.
Diabetes. Blood sugar levels that become too high or too low can cause a coma.
Lack of oxygen. People who have been rescued from drowning or revived after a heart attack might not awaken due to lack of oxygen to the brain.
Infections. Infections such as encephalitis and meningitis cause swelling of the brain, spinal cord or the tissues that surround the brain. Severe cases of these infections can result in brain damage or a coma.
Seizures. Ongoing seizures can lead to a coma.
Toxins. Exposure to toxins, such as carbon monoxide or lead, can cause brain damage and a coma.
Drugs and alcohol. Overdosing on drugs or alcohol can result in a coma.
There are no Risk Factors available for Coma in the knowledge baseComplications for Coma:
Although many people gradually recover from a coma, others enter a persistent vegetative state or die. Some people who recover from a coma end up with major or minor disabilities.
During a coma, bedsores, urinary tract infections, blood clots in the legs and other problems may develop.
There are no preventive measures available for Coma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Common cold
Overview of Common cold:
The common cold is an illness affecting your nose and throat. Most often, it's harmless, but it might not feel that way. Germs called viruses cause a common cold.
Often, adults may have two or three colds each year. Infants and young children may have colds more often.
Most people recover from a common cold in 7 to 10 days. Symptoms might last longer in people who smoke. Most often, you don't need medical care for a common cold. If symptoms don't get better or if they get worse, see your health care provider.
Illnesses of the nose and throat caused by germs are called upper respiratory tract infections.
Home Remedies for Common cold:
To make yourself as comfortable as possible when you have a cold, try these tips:
Drink plenty of fluids. Water, juice, clear broth or warm lemon water are good choices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can increase fluid loss.
Sip warm liquids. Chicken soup, tea, warm apple juice or other warm liquids can soothe a sore throat and loosen a stuffy nose. Honey may help coughs in adults and children who are older than age 1. Try it in hot tea. Do not give honey to children younger than 1 year old because of the risk of an illness called infant botulism.
Rest. Rest as much as possible. Stay home from work or school if you have a fever or a bad cough. Do not go out if you are drowsy after taking medicine.
Adjust your room's temperature and humidity. Keep your room warm, but not overheated. If the air is dry, a cool-mist humidifier can help with stuffiness and coughing. Clean your humidifier as directed to prevent the growth of bacteria and molds.
Use a saltwater gargle. A saltwater gargle of 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon (1250 to 2500 milligrams) of table salt in 4 to 8 fluid ounces (120 to 240 milliliters) of warm water can help soothe a sore throat. Gargle the solution and then spit it out. Most children younger than 6 years aren't able to gargle properly.
Try other throat soothers. Use ice chips, lozenges or hard candy to soothe a sore throat. Use caution when giving lozenges or hard candy to children because they can choke on them. Don't give lozenges or hard candy to children younger than 6 years.
Try saline nasal drops or sprays. Saline nasal drops or sprays can keep nasal passages moist and loosen mucus.
Use a suction bulb for younger children. In infants and younger children, apply saline nasal drops, wait for a short period and then use a suction bulb to draw mucus out of each nostril. Insert the bulb syringe about 1/4 to 1/2 inch (6 to 12 millimeters).
More Information
Cold remedies
Humidifiers
Neti pot: Can it clear my nose?
Show more related information
Symptoms for Common cold :
Most often, common cold symptoms start 1 to 3 days after someone is exposed to a cold virus. Symptoms vary. They can include:
Runny or stuffy nose.
Sore or scratchy throat.
Cough.
Sneezing.
Generally feeling unwell.
Slight body aches or a mild headache.
Low-grade fever.
The mucus from your nose may start out clear and become thicker and yellow or green. This change is normal. Most often, it doesn't mean that you have a bacterial illness.
Causes for Common cold :
Many viruses can cause a common cold. Rhinoviruses are the most common cause.
A cold virus enters the body through the mouth, eyes or nose. The virus can spread by:
Droplets in the air when someone who is sick coughs, sneezes or talks.
Hand-to-hand contact with someone who has a cold.
Sharing objects with the virus on them, such as dishes, towels, toys or telephones.
Touching your eyes, nose or mouth after contact with the virus.
Risk Factors for Common cold:
These factors can increase the chances of getting a cold:
Age. Infants and young children have a greater risk of colds than other people, especially if they spend time in child care settings.
Weakened immune system. Having a long-term illness or weakened immune system increases your risk.
Time of year. Both children and adults are more likely to get colds in fall and winter.
Smoking. Smoking or being around secondhand smoke increases the risk of catching a cold.
Exposure. Being in crowds, such as at school or on an airplane, increases the chance of getting a cold.
Complications for Common cold:
These conditions can occur along with your cold:
Middle ear infection. This is the swelling and build-up of fluids in the space behind the eardrum. It may be caused by a virus or bacteria. Typical signs and symptoms include earaches or the return of a fever following a common cold.
Asthma. A cold can trigger wheezing, even in people who don't have asthma. For people with asthma, a cold can make it worse.
Sinusitis. In adults or children, a common cold that lasts a while can lead to swelling and pain in the sinuses. These are air-filled spaces in the skull above the eyes and around the nose. A virus or bacteria may cause sinusitis.
Other illnesses. A common cold can lead to illnesses of the lungs, such as pneumonia or bronchitis. People with asthma or weakened immune systems have an increased risk of these conditions.
Preventions for Common cold
There's no vaccine for the common cold. You can take these steps to slow the spread of the virus and prevent illness:
Wash your hands. Wash your hands well and often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water aren't available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol. Teach your children the importance of hand-washing. Try not to touch your eyes, nose or mouth with unwashed hands.
Clean and disinfect. Clean and disinfect surfaces that are touched often. These include doorknobs, light switches, electronics, and kitchen and bathroom countertops. This is especially important when someone in your family has a cold. Wash children's toys often.
Cover your cough. Sneeze and cough into tissues. Throw away used tissues right away, and then wash your hands. If you don't have a tissue, sneeze or cough into the bend of your elbow, and then wash your hands.
Don't share. Don't share drinking glasses or silverware with other family members.
Stay away from people with colds. Avoid close contact with anyone who has a cold. Stay out of crowds when possible. Try not to touch your eyes, nose and mouth when you're in crowds.
Review your child care center's policies. Look for a child care setting with good hygiene practices and clear policies about keeping sick children at home.
Take care of yourself. Eat well, exercise and get plenty of sleep to help you stay healthy.
Condition name:Common variable immunodeficiency
Overview of Common variable immunodeficiency:
Common variable immunodeficiency, also called CVID, is an immune system disorder that causes low levels of the proteins in the body that help fight infections. People with CVID have repeated infections in the ears, sinuses and the system for breathing, called the respiratory system.
There's also an increased risk of digestive disorders, autoimmune disorders, blood disorders and cancer. CVID can be passed through families, called inherited.
There are no home remedies available for Common variable immunodeficiency in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Common variable immunodeficiency :
How bad symptoms are varies greatly between people with CVID. Symptoms of common variable immunodeficiency may appear during childhood or the teen years. But many people don't get symptoms until they're adults.
If you have CVID, you'll likely have repeated infections before being diagnosed. The most common types of infections include pneumonia, sinusitis, ear infections and gastrointestinal infections.
Causes for Common variable immunodeficiency :
In most CVID cases, the cause is unknown. In around 10% of people with CVID, a gene change has been found. Researchers believe that the condition is caused by a mix of factors in the environment and in genes. As of now, the environmental factors are unclear.
There are no Risk Factors available for Common variable immunodeficiency in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Common variable immunodeficiency in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Common variable immunodeficiency in the knowledge baseCondition name:Common warts
Overview of Common warts:
Common warts are small, grainy skin growths that occur most often on the fingers or hands. They're rough to the touch and often have tiny black dots. These dots are clotted blood vessels.
Common warts are caused by a virus and are transmitted by touch. It can take 2 to 6 months for a wart to develop. The warts are usually harmless and over time go away on their own. But many people choose to remove them because they find them bothersome or embarrassing.
There are no home remedies available for Common warts in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Common warts :
Common warts symptoms include:
Small, fleshy, grainy bumps on the fingers or hands.
Feeling rough to the touch.
A sprinkling of black dots, which are clotted blood vessels.
Causes for Common warts :
Common warts are caused by the human papillomavirus, also called HPV. There are more than 100 types of this common virus, but only a few cause warts on the hands. Some strains of HPV are spread through sexual contact. But most are spread by casual skin contact or shared objects, such as towels or washcloths. The virus usually spreads through breaks in the skin, such as hangnails or scrapes. Biting your nails also can cause warts to spread on your fingertips and around your nails.
Each person's immune system responds to HPV differently. So not everyone who comes in contact with HPV develops warts.
Risk Factors for Common warts:
People at higher risk of developing common warts include:
Children and young adults.
People with weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV/AIDS or those who have had organ transplants.
People with the habit of nail biting or picking at hangnails.
There are no Complications available for Common warts in the knowledge basePreventions for Common warts
To help prevent common warts:
Don't touch or pick at warts, including your own.
Don't use the same emery board, pumice stone or nail clipper on your warts as you use on healthy skin and nails. Use a disposable emery board.
Don't bite your fingernails or pick at hangnails.
Groom with care. And avoid brushing, clipping or shaving areas that have warts.
Avoid shared hot tubs, showers and warm baths. And don't share washcloths or towels.
Use hand moisturizer daily. This helps prevent dry, cracked skin.
Condition name:Complicated grief
Overview of Complicated grief:
Losing a loved one is one of the most distressing and, unfortunately, common experiences people face. Most people experiencing normal grief and bereavement have a period of sorrow, numbness, and even guilt and anger. Gradually these feelings ease, and it's possible to accept loss and move forward.
For some people, feelings of loss are debilitating and don't improve even after time passes. This is known as complicated grief, sometimes called persistent complex bereavement disorder. In complicated grief, painful emotions are so long lasting and severe that you have trouble recovering from the loss and resuming your own life.
Different people follow different paths through the grieving experience. The order and timing of these phases may vary from person to person:
Accepting the reality of your loss
Allowing yourself to experience the pain of your loss
Adjusting to a new reality in which the deceased is no longer present
Having other relationships
These differences are normal. But if you're unable to move through these stages more than a year after the death of a loved one, you may have complicated grief. If so, seek treatment. It can help you come to terms with your loss and reclaim a sense of acceptance and peace.
There are no home remedies available for Complicated grief in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Complicated grief :
During the first few months after a loss, many signs and symptoms of normal grief are the same as those of complicated grief. However, while normal grief symptoms gradually start to fade over time, those of complicated grief linger or get worse. Complicated grief is like being in an ongoing, heightened state of mourning that keeps you from healing.
Signs and symptoms of complicated grief may include:
Intense sorrow, pain and rumination over the loss of your loved one
Focus on little else but your loved one's death
Extreme focus on reminders of the loved one or excessive avoidance of reminders
Intense and persistent longing or pining for the deceased
Problems accepting the death
Numbness or detachment
Bitterness about your loss
Feeling that life holds no meaning or purpose
Lack of trust in others
Inability to enjoy life or think back on positive experiences with your loved one
Complicated grief also may be indicated if you continue to:
Have trouble carrying out normal routines
Isolate from others and withdraw from social activities
Experience depression, deep sadness, guilt or self-blame
Believe that you did something wrong or could have prevented the death
Feel life isn't worth living without your loved one
Wish you had died along with your loved one
Causes for Complicated grief :
It's not known what causes complicated grief. As with many mental health disorders, it may involve your environment, your personality, inherited traits and your body's natural chemical makeup.
Risk Factors for Complicated grief:
Complicated grief occurs more often in females and with older age. Factors that may increase the risk of developing complicated grief include:
An unexpected or violent death, such as death from a car accident, or the murder or suicide of a loved one
Death of a child
Close or dependent relationship to the deceased person
Social isolation or loss of a support system or friendships
Past history of depression, separation anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Traumatic childhood experiences, such as abuse or neglect
Other major life stressors, such as major financial hardships
Complications for Complicated grief:
Complicated grief can affect you physically, mentally and socially. Without appropriate treatment, complications may include:
Depression
Suicidal thoughts or behaviors
Anxiety, including PTSD
Significant sleep disturbances
Increased risk of physical illness, such as heart disease, cancer or high blood pressure
Long-term difficulty with daily living, relationships or work activities
Alcohol, nicotine use or substance misuse
Preventions for Complicated grief
It's not clear how to prevent complicated grief. Getting counseling soon after a loss may help, especially for people at increased risk of developing complicated grief. In addition, caregivers providing end-of-life care for a loved one may benefit from counseling and support to help prepare for death and its emotional aftermath.
Talking. Talking about your grief and allowing yourself to cry also can help prevent you from getting stuck in your sadness. As painful as it is, trust that in most cases, your pain will start to lift if you allow yourself to feel it.
Support. Family members, friends, social support groups and your faith community are all good options to help you work through your grief. You may be able to find a support group focused on a particular type of loss, such as the death of a spouse or a child. Ask your doctor to recommend local resources.
Bereavement counseling. Through early counseling after a loss, you can explore emotions surrounding your loss and learn healthy coping skills. This may help prevent negative thoughts and beliefs from gaining such a strong hold that they're difficult to overcome.
Condition name:Compulsive sexual behavior
Overview of Compulsive sexual behavior:
Compulsive sexual behavior is sometimes called hypersexuality or sexual addiction. It's an intense focus on sexual fantasies, urges or behaviors that can't be controlled. This causes distress and problems for your health, job, relationships or other parts of your life.
Compulsive sexual behavior may involve different kinds of commonly enjoyable sexual experiences. Examples include masturbation, sexual arousal by using a computer to communicate, multiple sexual partners, use of pornography or paying for sex. But when these sexual behaviors become a major, constant focus in your life, are difficult to control, cause problems in your life, or are harmful to you or others, that's likely compulsive sexual behavior.
No matter what it's called or the exact nature of the behavior, untreated compulsive sexual behavior can damage your self-esteem, relationships, career, health and other people. But with treatment and self-help, you can learn to manage compulsive sexual behavior.
There are no home remedies available for Compulsive sexual behavior in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Compulsive sexual behavior :
Some signs that you may have compulsive sexual behavior include:
You have repeated and intense sexual fantasies, urges, and behaviors that take up a lot of your time and feel as if they're beyond your control.
You feel driven or have frequent urges to do certain sexual behaviors, feel a release of the tension afterward, but also feel guilt or deep regret.
You've tried without success to reduce or control your sexual fantasies, urges or behavior.
You use compulsive sexual behavior as an escape from other problems, such as loneliness, depression, anxiety or stress.
You continue to engage in sexual behaviors in spite of them causing serious problems. These could include the possibility of getting or giving someone else a sexually transmitted infection, the loss of important relationships, trouble at work, financial issues, or legal problems.
You have trouble making and keeping healthy and stable relationships.
Causes for Compulsive sexual behavior :
Although the exact causes of compulsive sexual behavior are not clear, possible causes may include:
Changes in brain pathways. Compulsive sexual behavior, over time, might cause changes in the brain's pathways, called neural circuits. This may happen especially in areas of the brain that are related to reinforcement. Over time, more-intense sexual content and stimulation are usually needed to get satisfaction or relief.
An imbalance of natural brain chemicals. Certain chemicals in your brain called neurotransmitters — such as serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine — help control your mood. When these are out of balance, your sexual desire and behavior could be affected.
Conditions that affect the brain. Certain health conditions, such as dementia, may cause damage to parts of the brain that affect sexual behavior. Also, treatment of Parkinson's disease with certain medicines may cause compulsive sexual behavior.
Risk Factors for Compulsive sexual behavior:
Compulsive sexual behavior can happen in both men and women, though it may be more common in men. It can affect anyone, regardless of sexual orientation. Factors that may increase the risk of compulsive sexual behavior include:
How easy it is to get sexual content. Advances in technology and social media give people easy access to intense sexual images and information.
Privacy. The secret and private nature of compulsive sexual activities can allow these problems to worsen over time.
Also, the risk of compulsive sexual behavior may be higher in people who have:
Problems with alcohol or drug use.
Another mental health condition, such as depression, anxiety or a gambling addiction.
Family conflicts or family members with problems such as addiction.
A history of physical or sexual abuse.
Complications for Compulsive sexual behavior:
Compulsive sexual behavior can cause many problems that affect both you and others. You may:
Struggle with feelings of guilt, shame and low self-esteem.
Develop other mental health conditions, such as depression, severe distress and anxiety. You also may think about or attempt suicide.
Neglect or lie to your partner and family, harming or destroying important relationships.
Lose your focus or engage in sexual activity or search internet pornography at work, risking your job.
Have financial problems from buying pornography, internet or telephone sex, and sexual services.
Get HIV, hepatitis or another sexually transmitted infection, or pass a sexually transmitted infection to someone else.
Have problems with drugs and alcohol, such as using recreational drugs or drinking too much alcohol.
Get arrested for sexual offenses.
Preventions for Compulsive sexual behavior
Because the cause of compulsive sexual behavior isn't known, it's not clear how to prevent it. But a few things may help you keep control of problem behavior:
Get help early for problems with sexual behavior. Identifying and treating early problems may help prevent compulsive sexual behavior from getting worse over time. Getting help also may prevent shame, relationship problems and harmful acts from getting worse.
Seek treatment early for mental health conditions. Depression, anxiety or other mental health conditions can make compulsive sexual behavior worse.
Get help for problems with alcohol and drug use. These can cause a loss of control that leads to poor judgment and sexual behaviors that aren't healthy.
Avoid risky situations. Don't risk your health or that of others by putting yourself into situations where you'll be tempted to engage in risky sexual activities.
Condition name:Concussion
Overview of Concussion:
A concussion is a mild traumatic brain injury that affects brain function. Effects are often short term and can include headaches and trouble with concentration, memory, balance, mood and sleep.
Concussions usually are caused by an impact to the head or body that is associated with a change in brain function. Not everyone who experiences a blow to the body or head has a concussion.
Some concussions cause the person to lose consciousness, but most do not.
Falls are the most common cause of concussions. Concussions also are common among athletes who play a contact sport, such as American football or soccer. Most people recover fully after a concussion.
There are no home remedies available for Concussion in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Concussion :
The symptoms of a concussion can be subtle and may not occur right away. Symptoms can last for days, weeks or even longer.
Common symptoms after a mild traumatic brain injury are headache, confusion and loss of memory, known as amnesia. The amnesia usually involves forgetting the event that caused the concussion.
Physical symptoms of a concussion may include:
Headache.
Ringing in the ears.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fatigue or drowsiness.
Blurry vision.
Other symptoms of a concussion include:
Confusion or feeling as if in a fog.
Amnesia surrounding the event.
Dizziness or "seeing stars."
A witness may observe these symptoms in the person with a concussion:
Temporary loss of consciousness, though this doesn't always occur.
Slurred speech.
Delayed response to questions.
Dazed appearance.
Forgetfulness, such as asking the same question over and over.
Some symptoms of a concussion occur right away. But sometimes symptoms may not occur for days after the injury, such as:
Trouble with concentration and memory.
Irritability and other personality changes.
Sensitivity to light and noise.
Trouble with sleep.
Feeling emotional or depressed.
Changes in taste and smell.
Causes for Concussion :
During a concussion, the brain slides back and forth against the inner walls of the skull. This forceful movement can be caused by a violent blow to the head and neck or upper body. It also may be caused by the sudden acceleration or deceleration of the head. This may happen during a car crash, a fall from a bike or from a collision with another player in sports.
These movements injure the brain and affect brain function, usually for a brief period of time. Sometimes a mild traumatic brain injury can lead to bleeding in or around the brain, causing prolonged drowsiness, confusion and, sometimes, death. Anyone who experiences a brain injury needs to be monitored in the hours afterward and seek emergency care if symptoms worsen.
Risk Factors for Concussion:
Events and factors that may increase the risk of a concussion include:
Activities that can lead to falls, especially in young children and older adults.
High-risk sports such as American football, hockey, soccer, rugby, boxing or other contact sports.
Not using proper safety equipment and supervision when playing high-risk sports.
Auto accidents.
Pedestrian or bicycle accidents.
Military combat.
Physical abuse.
Having had a previous concussion also increases the risk of having another.
Complications for Concussion:
Potential complications of concussion include:
Post-traumatic headaches. Some people experience concussion-related headaches for several days to weeks after a brain injury.
Post-traumatic vertigo. Some people experience a sense of spinning or dizziness for days or weeks after a brain injury.
Persistent post-concussive symptoms, also known as post-concussion syndrome. A small number of people may have multiple symptoms that last longer than expected. Longer lasting symptoms may include headaches, dizziness and trouble with thinking. If these symptoms persist beyond three months, they're called persistent post-concussive symptoms.
Effects of multiple brain injuries. Researchers are studying the effects of repeated head injuries that don't cause symptoms, known as subconcussive injury. At this time, there's no conclusive evidence that these repeated brain injuries affect brain function.
Second impact syndrome. Rarely, experiencing a second concussion before symptoms of a first concussion go away may result in rapid brain swelling. This can lead to death. It's important that athletes never return to sports while they're still experiencing symptoms of concussion.
Preventions for Concussion
These tips may help you prevent or minimize the risk of a concussion:
Wear protective gear during sports and other recreational activities. Make sure the equipment fits properly, is well maintained and is worn correctly. Follow the rules of the game and practice good sportsmanship.
Be sure to wear a helmet when bicycling, motorcycling, snowboarding or doing any activity that may result in a head injury.
Buckle your seat belt. Wearing a seat belt may prevent serious injury, including head injury, during a traffic accident.
Make your home safe. Keep your home well lit. Keep your floors free of anything that might cause you to trip and fall. Falls around the home are a leading cause of head injury.
Protect your children. To help lessen the risk of head injuries in children, block off stairways and install window guards.
Exercise regularly. Exercise strengthens your leg muscles and improves your balance.
Educate others about concussions. Educate coaches, athletes, parents and others about concussions to help spread awareness. Coaches and parents also can help encourage good sportsmanship.
Condition name:Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
Overview of Congenital adrenal hyperplasia:
Congenital adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) is the medical name for a group of genetic conditions that affect the adrenal glands. The adrenal glands are a pair of walnut-sized organs above the kidneys. They make important hormones, including:
Cortisol. This controls the body's response to illness or stress.
Mineralocorticoids such as aldosterone. These control sodium and potassium levels.
Androgens such as testosterone. These sex hormones are needed for growth and development in both males and females.
In people with CAH, a gene change results in a lack of one of the enzyme proteins needed to make these hormones.
The two major types of congenital adrenal hyperplasia are:
Classic CAH. This type is rarer and more serious. It's usually found by tests at birth or in early infancy.
Nonclassic CAH. This type is milder and more common. It may not be found until childhood or early adulthood.
There is no cure for congenital adrenal hyperplasia. But with proper treatment, most people who have CAH can lead full lives.
There are no home remedies available for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia :
Symptoms of CAH vary. The symptoms depend on which gene is affected. They also depend on how greatly the adrenal glands lack one of the enzymes needed to make hormones. With CAH, the hormones that the body needs to work properly are thrown out of balance. That may lead to too little cortisol, too little aldosterone, too many androgens or a mix of these issues.
Causes for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia :
The most common cause of CAH is the lack of the enzyme protein known as 21-hydroxylase. Sometimes, CAH is called 21-hydroxylase deficiency. The body needs this enzyme to make proper amounts of hormones. Very rarely, a lack of other much rarer enzymes also can cause CAH.
CAH is a genetic condition. That means it's passed from parents to children. It's present at birth. Children with the condition have two parents who both carry the genetic change that causes CAH. Or they have two parents who have CAH themselves. This is known as the autosomal recessive inheritance pattern.
People can carry the CAH gene and not have symptoms of the condition. This is called being a silent carrier. If a silent carrier becomes pregnant, that person can pass the gene to a child. If tests show that you're a silent carrier of the CAH gene and you have a partner of the opposite sex, talk with your healthcare professional. It's likely that your partner will need to get tested for the CAH gene before pregnancy so that you can better understand the risks.
Risk Factors for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia:
Factors that raise the risk of having CAH include:
Parents who both have CAH.
Parents who are both carriers of the changed gene that causes CAH.
Being of Ashkenazi Jewish, Latino, Mediterranean, Yugoslav or Yup'ik descent.
Complications for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia:
People who have classic CAH are at risk of a life-threatening condition called adrenal crisis. This emergency needs to be treated right away. Adrenal crisis can happen within the first few days after birth. It also can be triggered at any age by an infectious illness or physical stress such as surgery.
With adrenal crisis, very low levels of cortisol in the blood can cause:
Diarrhea.
Vomiting.
Dehydration.
Confusion.
Low blood sugar levels.
Seizures.
Shock.
Coma.
Aldosterone also may be low. This leads to dehydration, low sodium and high potassium levels. The nonclassic form of CAH doesn't cause adrenal crisis.
People who have either classic or nonclassic CAH may have irregular menstrual cycles and fertility issues.
Preventions for Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
There is no known way to prevent CAH. If you're thinking of starting a family and you're at risk of having a child with CAH, talk with your healthcare professional. You may be told to see a genetic counselor.
Condition name:Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH)
Overview of Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH):
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a rare condition that happens in a baby before birth. It occurs early in pregnancy when a baby's diaphragm — the muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen — fails to close as it should. This leaves a hole in the diaphragm. The hole is called a hernia.
This hernia in the muscle of the diaphragm creates an opening between the abdomen and the chest. The intestines, stomach, liver and other abdominal organs may move through the hole into the baby's chest. If the intestines are in the chest, they don't develop the typical connections that hold them in place in the abdomen (malrotation). They may twist on themselves, cutting off their blood supply (volvulus).
In addition, the lung is small on the side of the diaphragm with the hernia, but the development of both lungs is affected. The air sacs (alveoli) inside the lungs don't develop as they should. This results in problems with blood flow and increased pressure inside the lung's blood vessels. The blood pressure in the lungs is higher than it should be, which can make it hard for the baby to breathe after birth. Some infants may also have problems with heart development.
Treatment of CDH depends on when the condition is found, how serious it is and whether there are problems with the heart.
There are no home remedies available for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) :
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia ranges in severity. It may be mild and have few or no effects on the baby, or it can be more serious and affect the ability to bring oxygen to the rest of the body.
Babies born with CDH may have:
Severe trouble breathing due to small lungs that don't work well (pulmonary hypoplasia).
A type of high blood pressure that affects the arteries in the lungs and the right side of the heart (pulmonary hypertension).
Problems with development of the heart.
Damage to the intestines, stomach, liver and other abdominal organs if they move through the hernia into the chest.
Causes for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) :
In most cases, the cause of congenital diaphragmatic hernia is not known. In some cases, CDH can be linked to a genetic disorder or random gene changes called mutations. In these cases, the baby may have more issues at birth, such as problems with the heart, eyes, arms and legs, or stomach and intestines.
There are no Risk Factors available for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in the knowledge baseComplications for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH):
Complications that can occur with CDH include:
Lung problems.
Stomach, intestine and liver problems.
Heart disease.
Recurrent infections.
Hearing loss.
Changes in the shape of the chest and curve of the spine.
Gastroesophageal reflux — stomach acid flowing back into the tube called the esophagus, which connects the mouth and stomach.
Problems with growth and weight gain.
Developmental delays and learning disabilities.
Other problems present from birth.
There are no preventive measures available for Congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Congenital heart defects in children
Overview of Congenital heart defects in children:
A congenital heart defect is a problem with the structure of the heart that a child is born with.
Some congenital heart defects in children are simple and don't need treatment. Others are more complex. The child may need several surgeries done over a period of several years.
Home Remedies for Congenital heart defects in children:
If your child has a congenital heart defect, lifestyle changes may be recommended to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications.
Sports and activity restrictions. Some children with a congenital heart defect may need to reduce exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Your child's care professional can tell you which sports and types of exercise are safe for your child.
Preventive antibiotics. Some congenital heart defects can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves, called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures to prevent infection, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve. Ask your child's heart doctor if your child needs preventive antibiotics.
Symptoms for Congenital heart defects in children :
Serious congenital heart defects usually are found soon after birth or during the first few months of life. Symptoms could include:
Pale gray or blue lips, tongue, or fingernails. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Rapid breathing.
Swelling in the legs, belly or areas around the eyes.
Shortness of breath during feedings, leading to poor weight gain.
Less-serious congenital heart defects may not be found until later in childhood. Symptoms of congenital heart defects in older children may include:
Easily getting short of breath during exercise or activity.
Getting tired very easily during exercise or activity.
Fainting during exercise or activity.
Swelling in the hands, ankles or feet.
Causes for Congenital heart defects in children :
To understand the causes of congenital heart defects, it may help to know how the heart usually works.
The typical heart has four chambers. There are two on the right and two on the left.
The two upper chambers are called the atria.
The two lower chambers are called the ventricles.
To pump blood through the body, the heart uses its left and right sides for different tasks.
The right side of the heart moves blood to the lungs through the lung arteries, called the pulmonary arteries.
In the lungs, the blood gets oxygen. The blood then goes to the heart's left side through the pulmonary veins.
The left side of the heart pumps the blood through the body's main artery, called the aorta. It then goes to the rest of the body.
Risk Factors for Congenital heart defects in children:
Most congenital heart defects result from changes that occur early as the baby's heart is developing before birth. The exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown. But some risk factors have been identified.
Risk factors for congenital heart defects include:
Rubella, also called German measles. Having rubella during pregnancy can cause changes in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Diabetes. Careful control of blood sugar before and during pregnancy can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby. Diabetes that develops during pregnancy is called gestational diabetes. It generally doesn't increase a baby's risk of heart defects.
Some medicines. Taking certain medicines during pregnancy can cause congenital heart disease and other health problems present at birth. Medicines linked to congenital heart defects include lithium (Lithobid) for bipolar disorder and isotretinoin (Claravis, Myorisan, others), which is used to treat acne. Always tell your healthcare team about the medicines you take.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Genetics. Congenital heart defects appear to run in families, which means they are inherited. Changes in genes have been linked to heart problems present at birth. For instance, people with Down syndrome are often born with heart conditions.
Complications for Congenital heart defects in children:
Possible complications of a congenital heart defect include:
Congestive heart failure. This serious complication may develop in babies who have a severe congenital heart defect. Symptoms of congestive heart failure include rapid breathing, often with gasping breaths, and poor weight gain.
Infection of the lining of the heart and heart valves, called endocarditis. Untreated, this infection can damage or destroy the heart valves or cause a stroke. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental care to prevent this infection. Regular dental checkups are important. Healthy gums and teeth reduce the risk of endocarditis.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias. Scar tissue in the heart from surgeries to fix a congenital heart condition can lead to changes in heart signaling. The changes can cause the heart to beat too fast, too slow or irregularly. Some irregular heartbeats may cause stroke or sudden cardiac death if not treated.
Slower growth and development (developmental delays). Children with more-serious congenital heart defects often develop and grow more slowly than do children who don't have heart defects. They may be smaller than other children of the same age. If the nervous system has been affected, a child may learn to walk and talk later than other children.
Stroke. Although uncommon, a congenital heart defect can let a blood clot pass through the heart and travel to the brain, causing a stroke.
Mental health disorders. Some children with congenital heart defects may develop anxiety or stress because of developmental delays, activity restrictions or learning difficulties. Talk to your child's healthcare professional if you're concerned about your child's mental health.
Complications of congenital heart defects may occur years after the heart condition is treated.
Preventions for Congenital heart defects in children
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these conditions. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
There are some steps you can take to help reduce your child's overall risk of heart problems present at birth such as:
Get proper prenatal care. Regular checkups with a healthcare professional during pregnancy can help keep mom and baby healthy.
Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to prevent harmful changes in the baby's brain and spinal cord. It also may help reduce the risk of congenital heart defects as well.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get a rubella vaccine. Also called German measles, having rubella during pregnancy may affect a baby's heart development. Get vaccinated before trying to get pregnant.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects.
Manage chronic health conditions. If you have other health conditions, talk to your healthcare professional about the best way to treat and manage them.
Avoid harmful substances. During pregnancy, have someone else do any painting and cleaning with strong-smelling products.
Tell your care team about your medicines. Some medicines can cause congenital heart defects and other health conditions present at birth. Tell your care team about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Condition name:Congenital heart disease in adults
Overview of Congenital heart disease in adults:
Congenital heart disease is one or more problems with the heart's structure that are present at birth. Congenital means that you're born with the condition. A congenital heart condition can change the way blood flows through the heart.
There are many different types of congenital heart defects. This article focuses on congenital heart disease in adults.
Some types of congenital heart disease may be mild. Others may cause life-threatening complications. Advances in diagnosis and treatment have improved survival for those born with a heart problem.
Treatment for congenital heart disease may include regular health checkups, medicines or surgery. If you have adult congenital heart disease, ask your healthcare professional how often you need a checkup.
Home Remedies for Congenital heart disease in adults:
If you have congenital heart disease, lifestyle changes may be recommended to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications.
Symptoms for Congenital heart disease in adults :
Some people born with a heart problem don't notice symptoms until later in life. Symptoms also may return years after a congenital heart defect is treated.
Common congenital heart disease symptoms in adults include:
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Blue or gray skin, lips and fingernails due to low oxygen levels. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Shortness of breath.
Feeling tired very quickly with activity.
Swelling due to fluid collecting inside body tissues, called edema.
Causes for Congenital heart disease in adults :
Researchers aren't sure what causes most types of congenital heart disease. They think that gene changes, certain medicines or health conditions, and environmental or lifestyle factors, such as smoking, may play a role.
Risk Factors for Congenital heart disease in adults:
Risk factors for congenital heart disease include:
Genetics. Congenital heart disease appears to run in families, which means it is inherited. Changes in genes have been linked to heart problems present at birth. For instance, people with Down syndrome are often born with heart conditions.
German measles, also called rubella. Having rubella during pregnancy may affect how the baby's heart grows while in the womb. A blood test done before pregnancy can find out if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Diabetes. Having type 1 or type 2 diabetes during pregnancy also may change how the baby's heart grows while in the womb. Gestational diabetes generally doesn't increase the risk of congenital heart disease.
Medicines. Taking certain medicines during pregnancy can cause congenital heart disease and other health problems present at birth. Medicines linked to congenital heart defects include lithium (Lithobid) for bipolar disorder and isotretinoin (Claravis, Myorisan, others), which is used to treat acne. Always tell your healthcare team about the medicines you take.
Alcohol. Drinking alcohol while pregnant has been linked to heart conditions in the baby.
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of congenital heart defects in the baby.
Complications for Congenital heart disease in adults:
Complications of congenital heart disease may occur years after the heart condition is treated.
Complications of congenital heart disease in adults include:
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias. Scar tissue in the heart from surgeries to fix a congenital heart condition can lead to changes in heart signaling. The changes can cause the heart to beat too fast, too slow or irregularly. Some irregular heartbeats may cause stroke or sudden cardiac death if not treated.
Infection of the lining of the heart and heart valves, called endocarditis. Untreated, this infection can damage or destroy the heart valves or cause a stroke. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental care to prevent this infection. Regular dental checkups are important. Healthy gums and teeth reduce the risk of endocarditis.
Stroke. Congenital heart disease can let a blood clot pass through the heart and travel to the brain, causing a stroke.
High blood pressure in the lung arteries, called pulmonary hypertension. Some heart conditions present at birth send more blood to the lungs, causing pressure to build. This eventually causes the heart muscle to weaken and sometimes to fail.
Heart failure. The heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
Preventions for Congenital heart disease in adults
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart disease is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these heart conditions. Some types of congenital heart disease occur in families. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
Condition name:Congenital mitral valve anomalies
Overview of Congenital mitral valve anomalies:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Congenital mitral valve anomalies in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Congenital mitral valve anomalies :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Congenital mitral valve anomalies in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Congenital mitral valve anomalies in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Congenital mitral valve anomalies in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Congenital mitral valve anomalies in the knowledge baseCondition name:Congenital myasthenic syndromes
Overview of Congenital myasthenic syndromes:
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are a group of rare hereditary conditions caused by a gene change that results in muscle weakness, which worsens with physical activity. Any muscles used for movement can be affected, including muscles that control speaking, chewing and swallowing, seeing and blinking, breathing, and walking.
There are many types of congenital myasthenic syndromes, depending on which gene is affected. The changed gene also determines many of the signs and symptoms and severity of the condition.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are usually identified at birth or early childhood and are lifelong conditions.
There is no cure for congenital myasthenic syndromes. Medications are generally an effective treatment for muscle weakness symptoms. Which medication works depends on which gene is identified as the cause of the congenital myasthenic syndrome. Rarely, some children may have a mild form that doesn't need treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Congenital myasthenic syndromes in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Congenital myasthenic syndromes :
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are typically identified at birth. But if signs and symptoms are mild, the condition may not be identified until childhood, or rarely, early adulthood.
Depending on the type of congenital myasthenic syndrome, the severity of signs and symptoms vary greatly, from minor weakness to the inability to move. Some symptoms can be life-threatening.
Common to all congenital myasthenic syndromes is muscle weakness that worsens with physical activity. Any muscles used for movement can be affected, but the most commonly affected muscles are those that control movement of the eyelids and eyes and chewing and swallowing.
During infancy and early childhood, progressive loss of essential voluntary muscle activity occurs with muscle use. Impaired muscle weakness can result in:
Droopy eyelids and poor eye control, often with double vision.
Difficulty chewing and swallowing.
Weakness of facial muscles.
Weak cry.
Slurring or nasal speech.
Delayed crawling and walking.
Delayed development of wrist, hand and finger skills, such as brushing teeth or combing hair.
Trouble supporting the head in an upright position.
Problems breathing, such as feeling short of breath and having short pauses in breathing, sometimes worsened by infection, fever or stress.
Depending on the type of congenital myasthenic syndrome, other signs and symptoms can include:
Skeletal deformities, such as joint, spine or foot deformities.
Unusual facial features, such as narrow jaw or wide-set eyes.
Hearing loss.
Weakness, numbness and pain, usually in hands and feet.
Seizures.
Kidney problems.
Cognitive impairment, rarely.
Causes for Congenital myasthenic syndromes :
Caused by any one of more than 30 identified genes, the type of congenital myasthenic syndrome depends on which gene is affected.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are classified by which location is affected in the neuromuscular junction ― the area that provides signals (impulses) between the nerve cells and the muscle cells to trigger movement (synapses). Disrupted signals that cause loss of muscle function can occur in different locations:
Nerve cells where the impulse starts (presynaptic).
Space between your nerve and muscle cells (synaptic).
Muscle cells where the impulse is received (postsynaptic), the most common location.
Some types of congenital myasthenic syndromes are the result of congenital disorders of glycosylation. Glycosylation is a complex chemical process that plays a role in regulating communication between cells. Glycosylation defects can adversely affect the transmission of signals from nerve cells to muscles.
Congenital myasthenic syndromes are most commonly inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. That means both parents must be carriers, but they do not typically show signs of the condition. The affected child inherits two copies of the abnormal gene — one from each parent. If children inherit only one copy, they won't develop the syndrome, but they'll be carriers and possibly pass the gene to their own children.
Rarely, congenital myasthenic syndromes can be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, meaning that only one parent passes on the affected gene. In some cases, the affected gene occurs randomly and is not inherited. In other cases, no gene can be identified.
Risk Factors for Congenital myasthenic syndromes:
A child is at risk of a congenital myasthenic syndrome if both parents are carriers of a gene known to cause the syndrome. The child then inherits two copies of the gene. Children who inherit only one copy of the gene from one parent typically won't develop the syndrome but will be carriers.
There are no Complications available for Congenital myasthenic syndromes in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Congenital myasthenic syndromes in the knowledge baseCondition name:Conjoined twins
Overview of Conjoined twins:
Conjoined twins are two babies who are born physically connected to each other.
Conjoined twins develop when an early embryo only partially separates to form two individuals. Although two babies develop from this embryo, they remain physically connected — most often at the chest, abdomen or pelvis. Conjoined twins may also share one or more internal body organs.
Though many conjoined twins are not alive when born (stillborn) or die shortly after birth, advances in surgery and technology have improved survival rates. Some surviving conjoined twins can be surgically separated. The success of surgery depends on where the twins are joined and how many and which organs are shared. It also depends on the experience and skill of the surgical team.
There are no home remedies available for Conjoined twins in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Conjoined twins :
There are no specific symptoms that indicate a conjoined twin pregnancy. As with other twin pregnancies, the uterus may grow faster than it does with a single baby. And there may be more tiredness, nausea and vomiting early in the pregnancy. Conjoined twins can be diagnosed early in the pregnancy using an ultrasound.
Causes for Conjoined twins :
Identical twins (monozygotic twins) occur when a single fertilized egg splits and develops into two individuals. Eight to 12 days after conception, the embryonic layers that split to form monozygotic twins begin to develop into specific organs and structures.
It's believed that when the embryo splits later than this — usually between 13 and 15 days after conception — separation stops before the process is complete. The resulting twins are conjoined.
An alternative theory suggests that two separate embryos may somehow fuse together in early development.
What might cause either chain of events to occur is unknown.
Risk Factors for Conjoined twins:
Because conjoined twins are so rare, and the cause isn't clear, it's unknown what might make some couples more likely to have conjoined twins.
Complications for Conjoined twins:
Pregnancy with conjoined twins is complex and greatly increases the risk of serious complications. Conjoined babies require surgical delivery by cesarean section (C-section).
As with twins, conjoined babies are likely to be born prematurely, and one or both could be stillborn or die shortly after birth. Severe health issues for twins can occur immediately, such as trouble breathing or heart problems. Later in life, health issues such as scoliosis, cerebral palsy or learning disabilities may occur.
Possible complications depend on where the twins are joined, which organs or other parts of the body they share, and the expertise and experience of the health care team. When conjoined twins are expected, the family and the health care team need to discuss in detail the possible complications and how to prepare for them.
There are no preventive measures available for Conjoined twins in the knowledge baseCondition name:Constipation
Overview of Constipation:
Constipation is a problem with passing stool. Constipation generally means passing fewer than three stools a week or having a difficult time passing stool.
Constipation is fairly common. A lack of dietary fiber, fluids and exercise can cause constipation. But other medical conditions or certain medicines may be the cause.
Constipation is usually treated with changes in diet and exercise or with nonprescription medicines. Constipation may require medicines, changes in medicines or other treatments prescribed by a health care professional.
Long-term constipation, also called chronic constipation, may require treating another disease or condition that can cause or worsen constipation.
Home Remedies for Constipation:
Increase fiber intake with fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.Drink plenty of water.Exercise regularly.Prunes or prune juice as a natural laxative.
Symptoms for Constipation :
Symptoms of constipation include:
Fewer than three stools a week.
Hard, dry or lumpy stools.
Straining or pain when passing stools.
A feeling that not all stool has passed.
A feeling that the rectum is blocked.
The need to use a finger to pass stool.
Chronic constipation is having two or more of these symptoms for three months or longer.
Causes for Constipation :
Patterns of bowel movements vary from one person to another. The typical range is three times a day to three times a week. So it's important to know what is typical for you.
In general, constipation occurs when stool moves too slowly through the large intestine, also called the colon. If the stool moves slowly, the body absorbs too much water from the stool. The stool can become hard, dry and difficult to pass.
Risk Factors for Constipation:
Factors that may increase your risk of chronic constipation include:
Being an older adult
Being a woman
Getting little or no physical activity
Having a mental health condition such as depression or an eating disorder
Complications for Constipation:
Complications of chronic constipation include:
Swollen tissues around the anus, also called hemorrhoids.
Torn tissues of the anus, also called anal fissures.
Hard stools backed up into the colon, also called fecal impaction.
Exposed tissues of the rectum that have slipped out of the anal opening, also called rectal prolapse.
Preventions for Constipation
The following tips can help you avoid developing constipation.
Eat lots of high-fiber foods, including vegetables, fruits, beans and whole-grain foods.
Eat fewer foods with low amounts of fiber such as processed foods, dairy and meats.
Drink plenty of fluids.
Stay active and exercise regularly.
Don't ignore the urge to pass stool.
Create a regular schedule for passing stool, especially after a meal.
Condition name:Contact dermatitis
Overview of Contact dermatitis:
Contact dermatitis is an itchy rash caused by direct contact with a substance or an allergic reaction to it. The rash isn't contagious, but it can be very uncomfortable.
Many substances can cause this reaction, such as cosmetics, fragrances, jewelry and plants. The rash often shows up within days of exposure.
To treat contact dermatitis successfully, you need to identify and avoid the cause of your reaction. If you avoid the substance causing the reaction, the rash often clears up in 2 to 4 weeks. You can try soothing your skin with a cool, wet cloth and other self-care steps.
Home Remedies for Contact dermatitis:
To help reduce itching and soothe inflamed skin, try these self-care approaches:
Avoid the irritant or allergen. The key to this is identifying what's causing your rash and staying away from it. Your health care provider may give you a list of products that typically contain the substance that affects you. Also ask for a list of products that are free of the substance that affects you.
Apply an anti-itch cream or ointment. Put on the itchy area 1% hydrocortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10, others). This is a nonprescription product that you can buy at a drugstore. Use it 1 to 2 times a day for a few days. Or try calamine lotion. Whatever product you use, try cooling it in the refrigerator before applying.
Take an anti-itch drug. An oral antihistamine, such as diphenhydramine (Advil PM, Benadryl, others), which may also help you sleep better. A nonprescription antihistamine that won't make you so drowsy is loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Apply cool, wet compresses. Place a cool, wet cloth over the rash for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day.
Protect your skin. Avoid scratching. Trim your nails. If you can't keep from scratching an itchy area, cover it with a dressing. Leave blisters alone. While your skin heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun protection measures.
Soak in a soothing cool bath. Soak the affected area in cool water for 20 minutes. Sprinkle the water an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno).
Protect your hands. Rinse and dry hands well and gently after washing. Use moisturizers throughout the day â€” on top of any medicated cream you're using. And choose gloves based on what you're protecting your hands from. For example, plastic gloves lined with cotton are good if your hands are often wet.
Symptoms for Contact dermatitis :
Contact dermatitis shows up on skin that has been directly exposed to the substance causing the reaction. For example, the rash may show up along a leg that brushed against poison ivy. The rash can develop within minutes to hours of exposure, and it can last 2 to 4 weeks.
Signs and symptoms of contact dermatitis vary widely and may include:
An itchy rash
Leathery patches that are darker than usual (hyperpigmented), typically on brown or Black skin
Dry, cracked, scaly skin, typically on white skin
Bumps and blisters, sometimes with oozing and crusting
Swelling, burning or tenderness
Causes for Contact dermatitis :
Contact dermatitis is caused by exposure to a substance that irritates your skin or triggers an allergic reaction. The substance could be one of thousands of known allergens and irritants. Often people have irritant and allergic reactions at the same time.
Irritant contact dermatitis is the most common type. This nonallergic skin reaction occurs when an irritant damages your skin's outer protective layer.
Some people react to strong irritants after a single exposure. Others may develop a rash after repeated exposures to even mild irritants, such as soap and water. And some people develop a tolerance to the substance over time.
Common irritants include:
Solvents
Rubber gloves
Bleach and detergents
Hair products
Soap
Airborne substances
Plants
Fertilizers and pesticides
Allergic contact dermatitis occurs when a substance to which you're sensitive (allergen) triggers an immune reaction in your skin. It often affects only the area that came into contact with the allergen. But it may be triggered by something that enters your body through foods, flavorings, medicine, or medical or dental procedures (systemic contact dermatitis).
People often become sensitized to allergens after many contacts with it over years. Once you develop an allergy to a substance, even a small amount of it can cause a reaction.
Common allergens include:
Nickel, which is used in jewelry, buckles and many other items
Medications, such as antibiotic creams
Balsam of Peru, which is used in many products, such as perfumes, toothpastes, mouth rinses and flavorings
Formaldehyde, which is in preservatives, cosmetics and other products
Personal care products, such as body washes, hair dyes and cosmetics
Plants such as poison ivy and mango, which contain a highly allergenic substance called urushiol
Airborne allergens, such as ragweed pollen and spray insecticides
Products that cause a reaction when you're in the sun (photoallergic contact dermatitis), such as some sunscreens and cosmetics
Children develop allergic contact dermatitis from the usual offenders and also from exposure to diapers, baby wipes, jewelry used in ear piercing, clothing with snaps or dyes, and so on.
Risk Factors for Contact dermatitis:
The risk of contact dermatitis may be higher in people who have certain jobs and hobbies. Examples include:
Agricultural workers
Cleaners
Construction workers
Cooks and others who work with food
Florists
Hair stylists and cosmetologists
Health care workers, including dental workers
Machinists
Mechanics
Scuba divers or swimmers, due to the rubber in face masks or goggles
Complications for Contact dermatitis:
Contact dermatitis can lead to an infection if you repeatedly scratch the affected area, causing it to become wet and oozing. This creates a good place for bacteria or fungi to grow and may cause an infection.
Preventions for Contact dermatitis
You can take the following steps to help prevent contact dermatitis:
Avoid irritants and allergens. Try to identify and avoid the cause of your rash. For ear and body piercings, use jewelry made of hypoallergenic material, such as surgical steel or gold.
Wash your skin. For poison ivy, poison oak or poison sumac, you might be able to remove most of the rash-causing substance if you wash your skin right away after coming into contact with it. Use a mild, fragrance-free soap and warm water. Rinse completely. Also wash any clothing or other items that may have come into contact with a plant allergen, such as poison ivy.
Wear protective clothing or gloves. Face masks, goggles, gloves and other protective items can shield you from irritating substances, including household cleansers.
Apply an iron-on patch to cover metal fasteners next to your skin. This can help you avoid a reaction to jean snaps, for example.
Apply a barrier cream or gel. These products can provide a protective layer for your skin. For example, a nonprescription skin cream containing bentoquatam (Ivy Block) may prevent or lessen your skin's reaction to poison ivy.
Use moisturizer. Regularly applying moisturizing lotions can help restore your skin's outermost layer and keep your skin supple.
Take care around pets. Allergens from plants, such as poison ivy, can cling to pets and then be spread to people. Bathe your pet if you think it got into poison ivy or something similar.
Condition name:COPD
Overview of COPD:
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is an ongoing lung condition caused by damage to the lungs. The damage results in swelling and irritation, also called inflammation, inside the airways that limit airflow into and out of the lungs. This limited airflow is known as obstruction. Symptoms include trouble breathing, a daily cough that brings up mucus and a tight, whistling sound in the lungs called wheezing.
COPD is most often caused by long-term exposure to irritating smoke, fumes, dust or chemicals. The most common cause is cigarette smoke.
Emphysema and chronic bronchitis are the two most common types of COPD. These two conditions usually occur together and can vary in severity among people with COPD.
Chronic bronchitis is inflammation of the lining of the tubes that bring air into the lungs. These tubes are called bronchi. The inflammation prevents good airflow into and out of the lungs and makes extra mucus. In emphysema, the small air sacs of the lungs, called alveoli, are damaged. The damaged alveoli can't pass enough oxygen into the bloodstream.
Although COPD is a condition that can get worse over time, COPD is treatable. With proper management, most people with COPD can control symptoms and improve their quality of life. Proper management also can lower the risk of other conditions linked to COPD, such as heart disease and lung cancer.
Home Remedies for COPD:
If you have COPD, you can take steps to feel better and slow the damage to your lungs:
Control your breathing. Talk with your healthcare professional or respiratory therapist about methods for breathing more efficiently throughout the day. Also talk about positions that make breathing easier; ways to conserve your energy, such as sitting for tasks when possible; and ways to relax when you have trouble catching your breath.
Clear your airways. With COPD, mucus tends to collect in air passages and can be hard to clear. Removing mucus with controlled coughing, drinking plenty of water and using a humidifier may help.
Get regular physical activity. It may seem difficult to be active when you have trouble breathing. But regular physical activity and exercise can improve your overall strength and endurance and strengthen the muscles you use to breathe. Talk with your healthcare professional about which activities are best for you.
Eat healthy foods. Eating healthy foods can help you keep your strength. If you're underweight, your healthcare professional may recommend nutritional supplements. If you're overweight, losing weight can greatly help your breathing, especially during physical activities.
Avoid smoke and poor-quality air. In addition to quitting smoking, it's important to avoid places where others smoke. Secondhand smoke may add to lung damage. Air pollution also can irritate your lungs, so check daily air quality forecasts before going out. Identify what may trigger bouts of worsening symptoms so you can avoid them as much as possible.
See your healthcare professional regularly. Keep your appointment schedule, even if you're feeling fine. It's important to regularly monitor your lung function. And be sure to get your annual flu vaccine in the fall to help prevent infections that can worsen your COPD. Ask your healthcare professional about when to get the pneumococcal vaccine, COVID-19 vaccine and RSV vaccine. Call your healthcare professional if your symptoms get worse or you notice symptoms of infection.
Symptoms for COPD :
COPD symptoms often don't appear until a lot of lung damage has occurred. Symptoms usually worsen over time, especially if smoking or other irritating exposure continues.
Symptoms of COPD may include:
Trouble catching your breath, especially during physical activities.
Wheezing or whistling sounds when breathing.
Ongoing cough that may bring up a lot of mucus. The mucus may be clear, white, yellow or greenish.
Chest tightness or heaviness.
Lack of energy or feeling very tired.
Frequent lung infections.
Losing weight without meaning to. This may happen as the condition worsens.
Swelling in ankles, feet or legs.
People with COPD also are likely to have times when their symptoms become worse than the usual day-to-day variation. This time of worsening symptoms is called an exacerbation (eg-zas-er-bay-shun). Exacerbations can last for several days to weeks. They can be caused by triggers such as smells, cold air, air pollution, colds or infections. Symptoms may include:
Working harder than usual to breathe or having trouble breathing.
Chest tightness.
Coughing more often.
More mucus or changes in mucus color or thickness.
Fever.
Causes for COPD :
The main cause of COPD in developed countries is tobacco smoking. In the developing world, COPD often occurs in people exposed to fumes from burning fuel for cooking and heating in homes that don't have good airflow. Long-term exposure to chemical fumes, vapors and dusts in the workplace is another cause of COPD.
Not all people who have smoked for a long time have COPD symptoms, but they may still have lung damage, so their lungs don't work as well as they used to. Some people who smoke get less common lung conditions that may be diagnosed as COPD until a more thorough exam shows a different diagnosis.
Risk Factors for COPD:
Risk factors for COPD include:
Tobacco smoke. The biggest risk factor for COPD is long-term cigarette smoking. The more years you smoke and the more packs you smoke, the greater your risk. Pipe, cigar and marijuana smoking also may raise your risk. People who breathe in large amounts of secondhand smoke are at risk of COPD too.
Asthma. Asthma is a condition in which the airways narrow and swell and may produce extra mucus. Asthma may be a risk factor for developing COPD. The mix of asthma and smoking raises the risk of COPD even more.
Workplace exposure. Long-term exposure to chemical fumes, smoke, vapors and dusts in the workplace can irritate and cause swelling in the lungs. This can raise the risk of COPD.
Fumes from burning fuel. In the developing world, people exposed to fumes from burning fuel for cooking and heating in homes with poor airflow are at higher risk of COPD.
Genetics. AAT deficiency caused by a gene change passed down in families is the cause of COPD in some people. This genetic form of emphysema is not common. Other genetic factors may make certain people who smoke more likely to get COPD.
Complications for COPD:
COPD can cause many complications, including:
Respiratory infections. People with COPD are more likely to have colds, the flu and pneumonia. Any respiratory infection can make it much harder to breathe and could cause more damage to lung tissue.
Heart problems. For reasons that aren't fully understood, COPD can raise the risk of heart disease, including heart attack.
Lung cancer. People with COPD have a higher risk of getting lung cancer.
High blood pressure in lung arteries. COPD may cause high blood pressure in the arteries that bring blood to the lungs. This condition is called pulmonary hypertension.
Anxiety and depression. Difficulty breathing can keep you from doing activities that you enjoy. And having a serious medical condition such as COPD can sometimes cause anxiety and depression.
Preventions for COPD
Unlike some other medical conditions, COPD often has a clear cause and a clear way to prevent it. Most of the time, COPD is directly linked to cigarette smoking. The best way to prevent COPD is to never smoke. If you smoke and have COPD, stopping now can slow how fast the condition worsens.
If you've smoked for a long time, quitting can be hard, especially if you've tried quitting once, twice or many times before. But keep trying to quit. It's critical to find a stop-smoking program that can help you quit for good. It's your best chance for lessening damage to your lungs. Talk with your healthcare professional about options that might work best for you.
Workplace exposure to chemical fumes, vapors and dusts is another risk factor for COPD. If you work with these types of lung irritants, talk with your supervisor about the best ways to protect yourself. This may include wearing equipment that prevents you from breathing in these substances.
Here are some steps you can take to help prevent complications linked with COPD:
Quit smoking to help lower your risk of heart disease and lung cancer.
Get an annual flu vaccination and vaccination against pneumococcal pneumonia to lower your risk of or prevent some infections. Also talk with your doctor or other healthcare professional about when you need the COVID-19 vaccine and the RSV vaccine.
Talk with your healthcare professional or a mental health professional if you feel sad or hopeless or think that you may have depression.
Condition name:Corns and calluses
Overview of Corns and calluses:
Corns and calluses are thick, hardened layers of skin that develop when the skin tries to protect itself against friction or pressure. They often form on feet and toes or hands and fingers.
If you're healthy, you don't need treatment for corns and calluses unless they cause pain or you don't like how they look. For most people, simply removing the source of the friction or pressure makes corns and calluses disappear.
Home Remedies for Corns and calluses:
If you have diabetes or another condition that causes poor blood flow, consult your health care provider before treating a corn or callus on your own.
If you have no underlying health problems, try these suggestions to help clear up a corn or callus:
Soak your hands or feet. Soaking corns and calluses in warm, soapy water softens them. This can make it easier to remove the thickened skin.
Thin thickened skin. Once you've softened the affected skin, rub the corn or callus with a pumice stone, nail file, emery board or washcloth. This helps remove a layer of toughened skin. Don't use a sharp object to trim the skin. Don't use a pumice stone if you have diabetes.
Use corn pads. Apply a donut-shaped foam pad to protect the area where a corn or callus formed. Be careful using nonprescription liquid corn removers or medicated corn pads. These contain salicylic acid, which can irritate healthy skin and lead to infection, especially in people with diabetes or other conditions that cause poor blood flow. You can protect healthy skin by applying petroleum jelly (Vaseline) to the area around the corn or callus before using a medicated pad.
Moisturize your skin. Use moisturizer on your hands and feet regularly.
Wear comfortable shoes and socks. Wear well-fitting, cushioned shoes and socks, at least until your corn or callus disappears.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Corns and calluses :
Signs and symptoms of corns and calluses include:
A thick, rough area of skin
A hardened, raised bump
Tenderness or pain under the skin
Flaky, dry or waxy skin
Corns and calluses are not the same thing.
Corns are smaller and deeper than calluses and have a hard center surrounded by swollen skin. They can be painful when pressed. Hard corns often form on the top of the toes or the outer edge of the small toe. Soft corns tend to form between the toes.
Calluses are rarely painful and tend to develop on pressure spots, such as the heels, the balls of the feet, the palms and the knees. They may vary in size and shape and are often larger than corns.
Causes for Corns and calluses :
Corns and calluses are caused by friction and pressure from repeated actions. Some sources of this friction and pressure include:
Wearing ill-fitting shoes and socks. Tight shoes and high heels can squeeze areas of the feet. If your shoes are loose, your foot may repeatedly slide and rub against the shoe. Your foot may also rub against a seam or stitch inside the shoe. Socks that don't fit right can also be a problem.
Skipping socks. Wearing shoes and sandals without socks can cause friction on your feet.
Playing instruments or using hand tools. Calluses on the hands may result from the repeated pressure of activities such as playing instruments and using hand tools or even a pen.
Inheriting a tendency to develop corns. The type of corn that forms on non-weight-bearing areas, such as the soles and palms (keratosis punctata), might be caused by genetics.
Risk Factors for Corns and calluses:
Risk factors for corns and calluses include:
Wearing shoes that increase the pressure or friction on your feet.
Having a condition that increases the pressure or friction on your feet. Examples are hammertoe and hallux valgus, which causes a bunion-like bulge at the base of the big toe.
Inheriting a tendency to develop corns. The type of corn that forms on non-weight-bearing areas, such as the soles and palms (keratosis punctata), might be caused by genetics.
Complications for Corns and calluses:
If you have diabetes or another condition that causes poor blood flow to your feet, you're at greater risk of complications from corns and calluses.
Preventions for Corns and calluses
These approaches may help you prevent corns and calluses:
Wear shoes that give your toes plenty of room. If you can't wiggle your toes, your shoes are too tight. Have a shoe shop stretch your shoes at any point that rubs or pinches. Shop for shoes when your feet are most swollen, usually at the end of the day. If you use orthotics and inserts, be sure to have them on while fitting your shoes at the store.
Use protective coverings. Wear felt pads, nonmedicated corn pads or bandages over areas that rub against your footwear. You can also try toe separators or some lamb's wool between your toes.
Wear padded gloves when using hand tools. Or try padding your tool handles with cloth tape or covers.
Condition name:Coronary artery disease
Overview of Coronary artery disease:
Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a common type of heart disease. It affects the main blood vessels that supply blood to the heart, called the coronary arteries. In CAD, there is reduced blood flow to the heart muscle. A buildup of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the artery walls, a condition called atherosclerosis, usually causes coronary artery disease. The buildup, called plaque, makes the arteries narrow.
Coronary artery disease often develops over many years. Symptoms are from the lack of blood flow to the heart. They may include chest pain and shortness of breath. A complete blockage of blood flow can cause a heart attack.
Treatment for coronary artery disease may include medicines and surgery. Eating a nutritious diet, getting regular exercise and not smoking can help prevent coronary artery disease and the conditions that can cause it.
Coronary artery disease also may be called coronary heart disease.
Home Remedies for Coronary artery disease:
Making certain lifestyle changes can help keep the arteries healthy and can prevent or slow coronary artery disease. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease. Nicotine tightens blood vessels and forces the heart to work harder. Not smoking is one of the best ways to lower the risk of a heart attack. If you need help quitting, talk to your healthcare team.
Eat heart-healthy foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats. Eating one or two servings of fish a week also may help keep the heart healthy.
Get regular exercise. Exercise helps manage weight and control diabetes, cholesterol and blood pressure â€” all risk factors for coronary artery disease. Try to get 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Ask your healthcare team what amount and type of exercise is best for you.
Keep a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Losing even a small amount of weight can help reduce risk factors for coronary artery disease. Ask your healthcare team what the best weight is for you.
Control blood pressure. Adults should get their blood pressure checked by a healthcare professional at least every two years. You may need to have checks more often if you have a history of high blood pressure. Ask your health professional what blood pressure goal is best for you.
Get your cholesterol checked. Ask your healthcare team how often you need a cholesterol test. Lifestyle changes and medicines may be recommended to control cholesterol.
Check your blood sugar. If you have diabetes, carefully managing your blood sugar can help reduce the risk of coronary artery disease.
Avoid or limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to reduce stress.
Regular health checkups also are important. Some of the main risk factors for coronary artery disease â€” high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes â€” have no symptoms in the early stages. Early detection and treatment can help you keep your heart healthy. Also ask about recommended vaccines, such as a yearly flu vaccine.
Symptoms for Coronary artery disease :
Symptoms of coronary artery disease happen when the heart doesn't get enough oxygen-rich blood. Coronary artery disease symptoms may include:
Chest pain, called angina. You may feel squeezing, pressure, heaviness, tightness or pain in the chest. It may feel like somebody is standing on your chest. The chest pain usually affects the middle or left side of the chest. Activity or strong emotions can trigger angina. There are different types of angina. The type depends on the cause and whether rest or medicine makes symptoms better. In some people, especially women, the pain may be brief or sharp and felt in the neck, arm or back.
Shortness of breath. You may feel like you can't catch your breath.
Fatigue. If the heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs, you may feel unusually tired.
Symptoms of coronary artery disease may not be noticed at first. Sometimes symptoms only happen when the heart is beating hard, such as during exercise. As the coronary arteries continue to narrow, symptoms can get more severe or frequent.
A completely blocked coronary artery will cause a heart attack. Common heart attack symptoms include:
Chest pain that may feel like pressure, tightness, squeezing or aching.
Pain or discomfort that spreads to the shoulder, arm, back, neck, jaw, teeth or sometimes the upper belly.
Cold sweats.
Fatigue.
Heartburn.
Nausea.
Shortness of breath.
Lightheadedness or sudden dizziness.
Chest pain is usually the most common symptom of heart attack. But for some people, such as women, the elderly and those with diabetes, symptoms may seem unrelated to a heart attack. For example, they may have nausea or a very brief pain in the neck or back. Some people having a heart attack don't notice symptoms.
Causes for Coronary artery disease :
Coronary artery disease is caused by the buildup of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the walls of the heart arteries. This condition is called atherosclerosis. The buildup is called plaque. Plaque can cause the arteries to narrow, blocking blood flow. The plaque also can burst, causing a blood clot.
Some causes of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease are:
Diabetes or insulin resistance.
High blood pressure.
Lack of exercise.
Smoking or tobacco use.
Risk Factors for Coronary artery disease:
Coronary artery disease is common.
Coronary artery disease risk factors you can't control include:
Age. Getting older increases the risk of damaged and narrowed arteries.
Birth sex. Men are generally at greater risk of coronary artery disease. However, the risk for women increases after menopause.
Family history. A family history of heart disease makes you more likely to get coronary artery disease. This is especially true if a parent, brother, sister or child got heart disease at an early age. The risk is highest if your father or a brother had heart disease before age 55 or if your mother or a sister developed it before age 65.
Coronary artery disease risk factors you can control are:
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Smoking is bad for heart health. People who smoke have a much greater risk of heart disease. Breathing in secondhand smoke also increases the risk.
High blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure can make arteries hard and stiff. This can lead to atherosclerosis, which causes coronary artery disease.
Cholesterol. Too much "bad" cholesterol in the blood can increase the risk of atherosclerosis. "Bad" cholesterol is called low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Not enough "good" cholesterol, called high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, also leads to atherosclerosis.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases the risk of coronary artery disease. Type 2 diabetes and coronary artery disease share some risk factors, such as obesity and high blood pressure.
Obesity. Too much body fat is bad for overall health. Obesity can lead to type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure. Ask your healthcare team what a healthy weight is for you.
Chronic kidney disease. Having long-term kidney disease increases the risk of coronary artery disease.
Not getting enough exercise. Physical activity is important for good health. A lack of exercise is linked to coronary artery disease and some of its risk factors.
A lot of stress. Emotional stress may damage the arteries and worsen other risk factors for coronary artery disease.
Unhealthy diet. Eating foods with a lot of saturated fat, trans fat, salt and sugar can increase the risk of coronary artery disease.
Alcohol use. Heavy alcohol use can lead to heart muscle damage. It also can worsen other risk factors of coronary artery disease.
Amount of sleep. Too little sleep and too much sleep both have been linked to an increased risk of heart disease.
Risk factors often happen together. One risk factor may trigger another. When grouped together, some risk factors make you even more likely to develop coronary artery disease. For example, metabolic syndrome is a group of conditions that includes high blood pressure, high blood sugar, too much body fat around the waist and high triglyceride levels. Metabolic syndrome increases the risk of coronary artery disease.
Other possible risk factors for coronary artery disease may include:
Breathing pauses during sleep, called obstructive sleep apnea. This condition causes breathing to stop and start during sleep. It can cause sudden drops in blood oxygen levels. The heart must work harder to pump blood. Blood pressure goes up.
Increased high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP). This protein appears in higher than usual amounts when there's inflammation somewhere in the body. High hs-CRP levels may be a risk factor for heart disease. It's thought that as coronary arteries narrow, the level of hs-CRP in the blood goes up.
High triglycerides. This is a type of fat in the blood. High levels may raise the risk of coronary artery disease, especially for women.
High levels of homocysteine. Homocysteine is a substance that the body uses to make protein and to build and maintain tissue. But high levels of homocysteine may raise the risk of coronary artery disease.
Preeclampsia. This pregnancy complication causes high blood pressure and increased protein in the urine. It can lead to a higher risk of heart disease later in life.
Other pregnancy complications. Diabetes or high blood pressure during pregnancy are known risk factors for coronary artery disease.
Certain autoimmune diseases. People who have conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus have an increased risk of atherosclerosis.
Complications for Coronary artery disease:
Complications of coronary artery disease may include:
Chest pain, also called angina. This is a symptom of coronary artery disease. But it also can be a complication of worsening CAD. The chest pain happens when arteries narrow and the heart doesn't get enough blood.
Heart attack. A heart attack can happen if atherosclerosis causes a blood clot. A clot can block blood flow. The lack of blood can damage the heart muscle. The amount of damage depends in part on how quickly you are treated.
Heart failure.Narrowed arteries in the heart or high blood pressure can slowly make the heart weak or stiff. This can make it harder for the heart to pump blood.
Irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias. If the heart doesn't get enough blood, changes in heart signaling can happen. This can cause irregular heartbeats.
There are no preventive measures available for Coronary artery disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
Overview of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19):
COVID-19, also called coronavirus disease 2019, is an illness caused by a virus. The virus is called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, or more commonly, SARS-CoV-2. It started spreading at the end of 2019 and became a pandemic disease in 2020.
The virus that causes COVID-19 spreads most commonly through the air in tiny droplets of fluid between people in close contact. Many people with COVID-19 have no symptoms or mild illness. But for older adults and people with certain medical conditions, COVID-19 can lead to the need for care in the hospital or death.
Staying up to date on your COVID-19 vaccine helps prevent serious illness, the need for hospital care due to COVID-19 and death from COVID-19. Other ways that may help prevent the spread of this coronavirus includes good indoor air flow, physical distancing, wearing a mask in the right setting and good hygiene.
Medicine can limit the seriousness of the viral infection. Most people recover without long-term effects, but some people have symptoms that continue for months.
Home Remedies for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19):
If you have COVID-19, it's important to get plenty of rest, drink fluids and keep an eye on your symptoms. Medicines you can get without a prescription can help manage pain, fever or cough.
If you have COVID-19 and are staying separate from others, try to keep busy and help your body clear out the infection. Some things that might help are:
Eat healthy meals.
Get enough sleep.
Relaxation exercises.
Do activities you enjoy.
Connect with friends and family, such as with phone or video calls.
People who have COVID-19 or care for someone with the illness may feel new or worse symptoms of stress, depression and anxiety. If you or a loved one need help with managing the stress of illness, isolation or caregiving, contact your healthcare professional. Consider asking for a referral to a mental health professional.
Related information
COVID-19 and your mental health
Symptoms for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) :
Typical COVID-19 symptoms often show up 2 to 14 days after contact with the virus.
Symptoms can include:
Dry cough.
Shortness of breath.
Loss of taste or smell.
Extreme tiredness, called fatigue.
Digestive symptoms such as upset stomach, vomiting or loose stools, called diarrhea.
Pain, such as headaches and body or muscle aches.
Fever or chills.
Cold-like symptoms such as congestion, runny nose or sore throat.
People may only have a few symptoms or none. People who have no symptoms but test positive for COVID-19 are called asymptomatic. For example, many children who test positive don't have symptoms of COVID-19 illness. People who go on to have symptoms are considered presymptomatic. Both groups can still spread COVID-19 to others.
Some people may have symptoms that get worse about 7 to 14 days after symptoms start.
Most people with COVID-19 have mild to moderate symptoms. But COVID-19 can cause serious medical complications and lead to death. Older adults or people who already have medical conditions are at greater risk of serious illness.
COVID-19 may be a mild, moderate, severe or critical illness.
In broad terms, mild COVID-19 doesn't affect the ability of the lungs to get oxygen to the body.
In moderate COVID-19 illness, the lungs also work properly but there are signs that the infection is deep in the lungs.
Severe COVID-19 means that the lungs don't work correctly, and the person needs oxygen and other medical help in the hospital.
Critical COVID-19 illness means the lung and breathing system, called the respiratory system, has failed and there is damage throughout the body.
Rarely, people who catch the coronavirus can develop a group of symptoms linked to inflamed organs or tissues. The illness is called multisystem inflammatory syndrome. When children have this illness, it is called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children, shortened to MIS-C. In adults, the name is MIS-A.
Causes for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) :
COVID-19 is caused by infection with the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2, also called SARS-CoV-2.
The coronavirus spreads mainly from person to person, even from someone who is infected but has no symptoms. When people with COVID-19 cough, sneeze, breathe, sing or talk, their breath may be infected with the COVID-19 virus.
The coronavirus carried by a person's breath can land directly on the face of a nearby person, after a sneeze or cough, for example. The droplets or particles the infected person breathes out could possibly be breathed in by other people if they are close together or in areas with low air flow. And a person may touch a surface that has respiratory droplets and then touch their face with hands that have the coronavirus on them.
It's possible to get COVID-19 more than once.
Over time, the body's defense against the COVID-19 virus can fade.
A person may be exposed to so much of the virus that it breaks through their immune defense.
As a virus infects a group of people, the virus copies itself. During this process, the genetic code can randomly change in each copy. The changes are called mutations. If the coronavirus that causes COVID-19 changes in ways that make previous infections or vaccination less effective at preventing infection, people can get sick again.
The virus that causes COVID-19 can infect some pets. Cats, dogs, hamsters and ferrets have caught this coronavirus and had symptoms. It's rare for a person to get COVID-19 from a pet.
Risk Factors for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19):
The main risk factors for COVID-19 are:
If someone you live with has COVID-19.
If you spend time in places with poor air flow and a higher number of people when the virus is spreading.
If you spend more than 30 minutes in close contact with someone who has COVID-19.
Many factors affect your risk of catching the virus that causes COVID-19. How long you are in contact, if the space has good air flow and your activities all affect the risk. Also, if you or others wear masks, if someone has COVID-19 symptoms and how close you are affects your risk. Close contact includes sitting and talking next to one another, for example, or sharing a car or bedroom.
It seems to be rare for people to catch the virus that causes COVID-19 from an infected surface. While the virus is shed in waste, called stool, COVID-19 infection from places such as a public bathroom is not common.
Complications for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19):
Complications of COVID-19 include long-term loss of taste and smell, skin rashes, and sores. The illness can cause trouble breathing or pneumonia. Medical issues a person already manages may get worse.
Complications of severe COVID-19 illness can include:
Acute respiratory distress syndrome, when the body's organs do not get enough oxygen.
Shock caused by the infection or heart problems.
Overreaction of the immune system, called the inflammatory response.
Blood clots.
Kidney injury.
Preventions for Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends a COVID-19 vaccine for everyone age 6 months and older. The COVID-19 vaccine can lower the risk of death or serious illness caused by COVID-19.
The COVID-19 vaccines available in the United States are:
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 6 months and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
Children ages 6 months up to age 4 years are up to date after three doses of the 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. If a child has had one dose of a previous Pfizer-BioNTech COVID vaccine, two doses of the 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine will bring the child up to date. If a child had two doses previously, one dose of the 2024-2025 formula will bring the child up to date.
People age 5 and older are up to date with one 2024-2025 Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine.
Moderna COVID-19 vaccine 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 6 months and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
Children ages 6 months up to age 4 are up to date if they've had two doses of a 2024-2025 Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. If a child has had previous Moderna COVID vaccines, one dose of the 2024-2025 vaccine will bring the child up to date.
People age 5 and older are up to date with one 2024-2025 Moderna COVID-19 vaccine.
Novavax COVID-19 vaccine, adjuvanted 2024-2025 formula. This vaccine is available for people age 12 years and older.
Among people with a typical immune system:
People age 12 years and older are up to date if they've had one dose of a 2024-2025 Novavax COVID-19 vaccine.
In general, people age 5 and older with typical immune systems can get any vaccine approved or authorized for their age. They usually don't need to get the same vaccine each time.
Some people should get all their vaccine doses from the same vaccine maker, including:
Children ages 6 months to 4 years.
People age 5 years and older with weakened immune systems.
People age 12 and older who have had one shot of the Novavax vaccine should get the second Novavax shot in the two-dose series.
Talk to your healthcare professional if you have any questions about the vaccines for you or your child. Your healthcare team can help you if:
The vaccine you or your child got earlier isn't available.
You don't know which vaccine you or your child received.
You or your child started a vaccine series but couldn't finish it due to side effects.
People with weakened immune systems
Your healthcare team may suggest added doses of COVID-19 vaccine if you have a moderately or seriously weakened immune system. The FDA has also authorized the monoclonal antibody pemivibart (Pemgarda) to prevent COVID-19 in some people with weakened immune systems.
Control the spread of infection
In addition to vaccination, there are other ways to stop the spread of the virus that causes COVID-19.
If you are at a higher risk of serious illness, talk to your healthcare professional about how best to protect yourself. Know what to do if you get sick so you can quickly start treatment.
If you feel ill or have COVID-19, stay home and away from others, including pets, if possible. Avoid sharing household items such as dishes or towels if you're sick.
In general, make it a habit to:
Test for COVID-19. If you have symptoms of COVID-19 test for the infection. Or test five days after you came in contact with the virus.
Help from afar. Avoid close contact with anyone who is sick or has symptoms, if possible.
Wash your hands. Wash your hands well and often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Cough or sneeze into a tissue or your elbow. Then wash your hands.
Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces. For example, clean doorknobs, light switches, electronics and counters regularly.
Try to spread out in crowded public areas, especially in places with poor airflow. This is important if you have a higher risk of serious illness.
The CDC recommends that people wear a mask in indoor public spaces if you're in an area with a high number of people with COVID-19 in the hospital. They suggest wearing the most protective mask possible that you'll wear regularly, that fits well and is comfortable.
Condition name:Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome)
Overview of Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome):
Corticobasal degeneration, also called corticobasal syndrome, is a rare disease that causes areas of the brain to shrink. Over time, nerve cells break down and die.
Corticobasal degeneration affects the area of the brain that processes information and brain structures that control movement. People with this disease have trouble with movement on one or both sides of the body. Trouble with movement gets worse over time.
Symptoms also may include poor coordination, stiffness, trouble thinking, and trouble with speech or language.
There are no home remedies available for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) :
Symptoms of corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) include:
Trouble moving on one or both sides of the body, which gets worse over time.
Poor coordination.
Trouble with balance.
Stiffness.
Postures of the hands or feet that can't be controlled. For example, the hand may form a clenched fist.
Muscle jerks.
Trouble swallowing.
Changes in eye movements.
Trouble with thinking and language skills.
Speech changes, such as slow and halting speech.
Corticobasal degeneration gets worse over 6 to 8 years. Eventually, people with the disease lose the ability to walk.
Causes for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) :
Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) can have several causes. Most commonly, the disease results from a buildup of a protein called tau in brain cells. The buildup of tau may lead to the breakdown of the cells. This can cause symptoms of corticobasal degeneration.
Half of the people who have symptoms have corticobasal degeneration. But the second most common cause of corticobasal degeneration symptoms is Alzheimer's disease. Other causes of corticobasal degeneration include progressive supranuclear palsy, Pick's disease or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Risk Factors for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome):
There are no known risk factors for corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome).
Complications for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome):
People with corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) may develop serious complications. People with the disease may develop pneumonia, blood clots in the lungs or a dangerous response to an infection, known as sepsis. Complications often lead to death.
There are no preventive measures available for Corticobasal degeneration (corticobasal syndrome) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cradle cap
Overview of Cradle cap:
Cradle cap causes crusty or oily scaly patches on a baby's scalp. The condition isn't painful or itchy. But it can cause thick white or yellow scales that aren't easy to remove.
Cradle cap usually clears up on its own in weeks or a few months. Home care measures include washing your baby's scalp daily with a mild shampoo. This can help you loosen and remove the scales. Don't scratch cradle cap.
If cradle cap doesn't stop or seems serious, your baby's doctor or other health care professional may suggest a medicated shampoo, lotion or other treatment.
Home Remedies for Cradle cap:
The following home care tips may help you control the symptoms of cradle cap:
Gently rub your baby's scalp with your fingers or a washcloth to loosen the scales. Don't scratch.
Wash your baby's hair once a day with baby shampoo. Loosen the scales with a small, soft-bristled brush or fine-toothed comb before rinsing off the shampoo.
If the scales don't loosen easily, rub petroleum jelly or a few drops of mineral oil onto your baby's scalp. Let it soak into the scales for a few minutes, or hours if needed. Then brush and shampoo the hair as usual. Be sure to rinse well. If you leave in the oil, the cradle cap may get worse.
When the scales are gone, wash your baby's hair two or three times a week with a mild shampoo to prevent scale buildup.
Symptoms for Cradle cap :
Common symptoms of cradle cap include:
Patchy scaling or thick crusts on the scalp.
Oily or dry skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales.
Skin flakes.
Mild inflammation.
Similar scales also may be present on the ears, eyelids, nose and groin.
Cradle cap is common in newborns. It usually isn't itchy.
Cradle cap is the common term for infantile seborrheic dermatitis. It's sometimes confused with another skin condition, atopic dermatitis. A major difference between these conditions is that atopic dermatitis can be very itchy.
Causes for Cradle cap :
The cause of cradle cap isn't known. One factor may be hormones that pass from the mother to the baby before birth. These hormones can cause oil glands and hair follicles to make too much oil. This oil is called sebum.
Another factor may be a fungus called malassezia (mal-uh-SEE-zhuh) that grows in the sebum along with bacteria. Antifungal treatments often help control symptoms. This supports the idea that malassezia is a cause. An example of an antifungal treatment is ketoconazole.
Cradle cap isn't contagious, and it's not caused by poor hygiene.
Risk Factors for Cradle cap:
Cradle cap is very common in babies. There are no known risk factors for it.
There are no Complications available for Cradle cap in the knowledge basePreventions for Cradle cap
Shampooing your baby's hair every few days can help prevent cradle cap. Use a baby shampoo unless your baby's doctor or other health care professional suggests a stronger product.
Condition name:Craniopharyngioma
Overview of Craniopharyngioma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Craniopharyngioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Craniopharyngioma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Craniopharyngioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Craniopharyngioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Craniopharyngioma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Craniopharyngioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Craniosynostosis
Overview of Craniosynostosis:
Craniosynostosis (kray-nee-o-sin-os-TOE-sis) is a disorder present at birth in which one or more of the fibrous joints between the bones of your baby's skull (cranial sutures) close prematurely (fuse), before your baby's brain is fully formed. Brain growth continues, giving the head a misshapen appearance.
Usually, during infancy the sutures remain flexible, allowing a baby's skull to expand as the brain grows. In the front of the skull, the sutures meet in the large soft spot (fontanel) on top of the head. The anterior fontanel is the soft spot felt just behind a baby's forehead. The next largest fontanel is at the back (posterior). Each side of the skull has a tiny fontanel.
Craniosynostosis usually involves premature fusion of a single cranial suture, but it can involve more than one of the sutures in a baby's skull (multiple suture craniosynostosis). In rare cases, craniosynostosis is caused by certain genetic syndromes (syndromic craniosynostosis).
Treating craniosynostosis involves surgery to correct the shape of the head and allow for brain growth. Early diagnosis and treatment allow your baby's brain adequate space to grow and develop.
Although neurological damage can occur in severe cases, most children develop as expected in their ability to think and reason (cognitive development) and have good cosmetic results after surgery. Early diagnosis and treatment are key.
There are no home remedies available for Craniosynostosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Craniosynostosis :
The signs of craniosynostosis are usually noticeable at birth, but they become more apparent during the first few months of your baby's life. Signs and severity depend on how many sutures are fused and when in brain development the fusion occurs. Signs and symptoms can include:
A misshapen skull, with the shape depending on which of the sutures are affected
Development of a raised, hard ridge along affected sutures, with a change in the shape of the head that's not typical
Causes for Craniosynostosis :
Often the cause of craniosynostosis is not known, but sometimes it's related to genetic disorders.
Nonsyndromic craniosynostosis is the most common type of craniosynostosis. Its cause is unknown, although it's thought to be a combination of genes and environmental factors.
Syndromic craniosynostosis is caused by certain genetic syndromes, such as Apert syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome or Crouzon syndrome, which can affect a baby's skull development. These syndromes usually also include other physical features and health problems.
There are no Risk Factors available for Craniosynostosis in the knowledge baseComplications for Craniosynostosis:
If untreated, craniosynostosis may cause, for example:
Permanently misshapen head and face
Poor self-esteem and social isolation
The risk of increased pressure inside the skull (intracranial pressure) from simple craniosynostosis is small if the suture and head shape are fixed surgically. But babies with an underlying syndrome may develop increased intracranial pressure if their skulls don't expand enough to make room for their growing brains.
If untreated, increased intracranial pressure can cause:
Developmental delays
Cognitive impairment
Blindness
Seizures
Headaches
There are no preventive measures available for Craniosynostosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Crohn's disease
Overview of Crohn's disease:
Crohn's disease is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes swelling and irritation of the tissues, called inflammation, in the digestive tract. This can lead to belly pain, severe diarrhea, fatigue, weight loss and malnutrition.
Inflammation caused by Crohn's disease can affect different areas of the digestive tract in different people. Crohn's most commonly affects the end of the small intestine and the beginning of the large intestine. The inflammation often spreads into the deeper layers of the bowel.
Crohn's disease can be both painful and debilitating. Sometimes, it may lead to serious or life-threatening complications.
There's no known cure for Crohn's disease, but therapies can greatly reduce its symptoms and even bring about long-term remission and healing of inflammation. With treatment, many people with Crohn's disease can function well.
Home Remedies for Crohn's disease:
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing Crohn's disease. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
Diet
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to track what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating them.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help to manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant â€” that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of fluids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Consider multivitamins. Because Crohn's disease can interfere with your ability to absorb nutrients and because your diet may be limited, multivitamin and mineral supplements are often helpful. Check with your doctor before taking any vitamins or supplements.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Smoking
Smoking increases your risk of developing Crohn's disease. And once you have Crohn's disease, smoking can make it worse. People with Crohn's disease who smoke are more likely to have relapses and need medications and repeat surgeries. Quitting smoking can improve the overall health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Stress
Although stress doesn't cause Crohn's disease, it can make your signs and symptoms worse and may trigger flare-ups. Although it's not always possible to avoid stress, you can learn ways to help manage it, such as:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and normalize bowel function. Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique may help you decrease muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. One way to cope with stress is to regularly relax and use techniques such as deep, slow breathing to calm down. You can take classes in yoga and meditation or use books, CDs or DVDs at home.
More Information
Crohn's disease care at Mayo Clinic
Crohn's disease and the gut microbiome
Staying active with Crohn's disease
Show more related information
Symptoms for Crohn's disease :
Symptoms of Crohn's disease typically include:
Diarrhea.
Fever.
Fatigue.
Belly pain and cramping.
Blood in the stool.
Mouth sores.
Reduced appetite and weight loss.
Pain or drainage near or around the anus due to inflammation from a tunnel into the skin, called a fistula.
Crohn's disease can affect any part of the small or large intestine. It may involve multiple segments, or it may be continuous. It most commonly involves the last part of the small intestine. In some people, the disease is only in the colon or the large intestine.
Symptoms of Crohn's disease can range from mild to severe. They usually develop gradually, but sometimes might come on suddenly, without warning. Someone with Crohn's disease also may have periods of time with no symptoms. This is known as remission.
Causes for Crohn's disease :
The exact cause of Crohn's disease remains unknown. Previously, diet and stress were suspected, but now healthcare professionals know that these factors may aggravate, but don't cause, Crohn's disease. Several factors likely play a role in its development.
Genes. More than 200 genes have been associated with Crohn's disease. However, researchers aren't exactly sure what role they play in the condition. Having one or more of these genes may make someone more likely to get Crohn's disease.
Immune system. It's possible that bacteria, viruses or other environmental factors may trigger Crohn's disease. For example, certain bacteria in the gut microbiome are suspected to be associated with Crohn's disease, but it is unknown if these bacteria cause Crohn's disease. When the immune system tries to fight off an invading microorganism or environmental triggers, an atypical immune response causes the immune system to attack the cells in the digestive tract, too.
Risk Factors for Crohn's disease:
Risk factors for Crohn's disease may include:
Family history. People with a first-degree relative, such as a parent, sibling or child, are at higher risk to have the disease. As many as 1 in 5 people with Crohn's disease has a family member with the disease.
Age. Crohn's disease can happen at any age, but it's more common to develop the condition when you're young. Most people who develop Crohn's disease are diagnosed before they're around 30 years old.
Ethnicity. Although Crohn's disease can affect any ethnic group, white people have the highest risk, especially people of Eastern European (Ashkenazi) Jewish descent. However, the incidence of Crohn's disease is increasing among Black people who live in North America and the United Kingdom. Crohn's disease also is being increasingly seen in the Middle Eastern population and among migrants to the United States.
Cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoking is the most important controllable risk factor for developing Crohn's disease. Smoking also leads to more-serious disease and a greater risk of having surgery. If you smoke, it's important to stop.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve), diclofenac sodium and others. While they do not cause Crohn's disease, they can lead to inflammation of the bowel that makes Crohn's disease worse.
Complications for Crohn's disease:
Crohn's disease may lead to one or more of the following complications:
Bowel blockage or obstruction. Crohn's disease can affect the entire thickness of the intestinal wall. Over time, parts of the bowel can scar and narrow, which may block the flow of digestive contents, often known as a stricture. Surgery to widen the stricture or to remove the diseased portion of the bowel may be necessary.
Ulcers. Ongoing inflammation can lead to open sores called ulcers anywhere in the digestive tract. This can include the mouth, anus and genital area.
Fistulas. Sometimes ulcers can extend completely through the intestinal wall, creating a connection between different body parts that shouldn't be there. This is known as a fistula. Fistulas can develop between the intestine and the skin, or between the intestine and another organ. Fistulas near or around the anal area are the most common kind.
When fistulas develop inside the abdomen, it may lead to infections and collections of pus called abscesses. This can be life-threatening if not treated. Fistulas may form between loops of bowel, in the bladder or vagina, or through the skin, causing continuous drainage of bowel contents to the skin.
Anal fissure. This is a small tear in the tissue that lines the anus or in the skin around the anus where infections can occur. It's often associated with painful stool and may lead to a fistula.
Malnutrition. Diarrhea, belly pain and cramping may make it difficult to eat or for the intestine to absorb enough nutrients. It's also common to develop anemia due to low iron or vitamin B-12 caused by the disease.
Colon cancer. Having Crohn's disease that affects the colon increases the risk of colon cancer. General colon cancer screening guidelines for people without Crohn's disease call for a colonoscopy at least every 10 years beginning at age 45.
In people with Crohn's disease affecting a large part of the colon, a colonoscopy to screen for colon cancer is recommended about eight years after disease onset and generally is performed every 1 to 2 years afterward. Ask a healthcare professional whether you need to have this test done sooner and more frequently.
Skin disorders. Many people with Crohn's disease also may develop a condition called hidradenitis suppurativa. This skin disorder involves deep nodules, tunnels and abscesses in the armpits, groin, under the breasts, and in the perianal or genital area. Some Crohn's disease treatments also increase the risk of skin cancers, so a routine skin examination is recommended.
Other health problems. Crohn's disease also can cause problems in other parts of the body. Among these problems are low iron, called anemia, osteoporosis, arthritis, kidney stones, eye problems, and gallbladder or liver disease.
Medicine risks. Certain Crohn's disease medicines that block functions of the immune system are associated with a small risk of developing cancers, including lymphoma and skin cancers. They also increase the risk of infections.
Corticosteroids can be associated with a risk of osteoporosis, bone fractures, cataracts, glaucoma, diabetes and high blood pressure, among other conditions. Work with a healthcare professional to determine risks and benefits of medicines.
Blood clots. Crohn's disease increases the risk of blood clots in veins and arteries.
There are no preventive measures available for Crohn's disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cryoglobulinemia
Overview of Cryoglobulinemia:
Cryoglobulinemia is a family of rare conditions, called vasculitis. Vasculitis causes irritation and swelling, called inflammation, of the blood vessels.
Cryoglobulins are atypical proteins in the blood. For people who have cryoglobulinemia (kry-o-glob-u-lih-NEE-me-uh), these proteins may clump together at body temperatures below 98.6 F (37 C).
These clumps can block blood flow. This can damage the skin, joints, nerves and organs, mainly the kidneys and liver.
Home Remedies for Cryoglobulinemia:
If you have cryoglobulinemia, it's important to stay out of cold temperatures. Protect your fingers and toes. You may want to wear gloves when using the freezer or refrigerator. Check your feet daily for sores. Cryoglobulinemia can make it harder for foot damage to heal.
Symptoms for Cryoglobulinemia :
Some people have no symptoms of cryoglobulinemia. For people who have symptoms, the symptoms might come and go. They can include:
Skin spots. Most people with cryoglobulinemia get purple skin spots, called lesions, on their legs. On Black or brown skin, the spots might look black or brown. Some people also get open leg sores, called ulcers.
Joint pain. Symptoms like those of rheumatoid arthritis are common in cryoglobulinemia.
Peripheral neuropathy. Cryoglobulinemia can damage the nerves at the tips of the fingers and toes. This causes numbness and other problems.
Causes for Cryoglobulinemia :
It's not clear what causes cryoglobulinemia. It's been linked to:
Infections. Hepatitis C is the most common infection linked to cryoglobulinemia. Others include hepatitis B, HIV, Epstein-Barr, toxoplasmosis and malaria.
Certain cancers. Some cancers of the blood, such as multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia, can cause cryoglobulinemia.
Autoimmune diseases. Disease in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues by mistake, called autoimmune, increases the risk of getting cryoglobulinemia. Examples are lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren syndrome.
Risk Factors for Cryoglobulinemia:
Risk factors of cryoglobulinemia may include:
Sex. Cryoglobulinemia happens more often in women than in men.
Age. Symptoms of cryoglobulinemia most often begin in middle age.
Other diseases. Cryoglobulinemia is linked with diseases such as hepatitis C, HIV, multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, lupus and Sjogren syndrome.
Complications for Cryoglobulinemia:
Cryoglobulinemia can affect the kidneys. The main symptoms are protein or blood in the urine. High blood pressure most often goes with the kidney symptoms. In time, kidney failure might happen.
There are no preventive measures available for Cryoglobulinemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak)
Overview of CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak):
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) surrounds the brain and spinal cord and provides a cushion to protect them from injury. There are three layers that surround the spinal cord and brain. When there is a hole or tear in the outermost layer, a CSF leak occurs. The hole or tear in this outer layer, called the dura mater, allows some of the fluid to escape.
There are two distinct types of CSF leaks: spinal CSF leaks and cranial CSF leaks. Each type has different symptoms, causes and treatments.
A spinal CSF leak occurs anywhere in the spinal column. The most common symptom of a spinal CSF leak is a headache.
A cranial CSF leak occurs in the skull, and often causes symptoms such as clear fluid leaking from the nose or ear.
Some CSF leaks may heal with bed rest and other conservative treatment. Many CSF leaks need a patch to cover the hole or surgery to repair the leak.
There are no home remedies available for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak) :
Symptoms vary between spinal and cranial CSF leaks.
Causes for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak) :
Spinal CSF leaks may be caused by:
A spinal tap, also called a lumbar puncture.
An epidural in the spine for pain relief, such as during labor and delivery.
An injury to the head or spine.
Bone spurs along the spine.
Irregularities of the dura mater around the nerve roots in the spine.
Irregular connections between dura mater and veins. These are referred to as CSF-venous fistulas.
Prior surgery on the spine.
Cranial CSF leaks may be caused by:
A head injury.
Sinus surgery.
Increased pressure in the brain.
Malformations of the inner ear.
Sometimes CSF leaks develop after very minor events:
Sneezing.
Coughing.
Straining to have a bowel movement.
Lifting heavy objects.
Falling.
Stretching.
Exercise.
When there is no surgery or procedure prior to the start of a CSF leak, it is called a spontaneous CSF leak.
Risk Factors for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak):
Risk factors for spinal CSF leaks include:
Having a previous surgery or procedure on or around the spine.
Connective tissue disorders such as Marfan syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, which often also cause joint hypermobility and dislocations.
Risk factors for cranial CSF leaks include:
Having a previous surgery on or around the skull.
Obesity.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Head trauma.
Tumor at the skull base.
Irregularities of the skull base or inner ear.
Complications for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak):
If a cranial CSF leak is left untreated, complications may occur. Possible complications include meningitis and tension pneumocephalus, which is when air enters the spaces surrounding the brain. Untreated spinal CSF leaks may lead to subdural hematomas, or bleeding on the surface of the brain.
There are no preventive measures available for CSF leak (Cerebrospinal fluid leak) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cushing syndrome
Overview of Cushing syndrome:
Cushing syndrome happens when the body has too much of the hormone cortisol for a long time. This can result from the body making too much cortisol, or from taking medicines called glucocorticoids, which affect the body the same way as cortisol.
Too much cortisol can cause some of the main symptoms of Cushing syndrome — a fatty hump between the shoulders, a rounded face, and pink or purple stretch marks on the skin. Cushing syndrome also can cause high blood pressure or bone loss. Sometimes, it can cause type 2 diabetes.
Treatments for Cushing syndrome can lower the body's cortisol levels and improve symptoms. The sooner treatment starts, the better the chances for recovery.
Home Remedies for Cushing syndrome:
Recovering from Cushing syndrome is usually a slow, gradual process. It can take time before you start to feel better. These tips may help you on your journey back to health.
Increase activities slowly. Work up to a comfortable level of exercise or activity without overdoing it. Don't do activities that could cause you to get hurt, such as high-impact exercise. With patience and consistency, you'll improve little by little over time.
Eat sensibly. Nutritious foods are a good source of fuel for your body during recovery. They also can help you lose any weight you gained from Cushing syndrome. Make sure you're getting enough calcium and vitamin D. Taken together, they help your body absorb calcium, which may strengthen your bones. This can counteract the bone density loss caused by Cushing syndrome.
Keep an eye on your mental health. Depression can be a side effect of Cushing syndrome, but it also can continue or start after treatment begins. Don't ignore depression or wait it out. Seek help quickly from your health care provider or a therapist if you're depressed, overwhelmed or having trouble coping during your recovery.
Gently soothe aches and pains. Hot baths, massages and low-impact exercises, such as water aerobics and tai chi, can help reduce some of the muscle and joint pain that happens during Cushing syndrome recovery.
Symptoms for Cushing syndrome :
Symptoms of Cushing syndrome can vary depending on the level of extra cortisol.
Causes for Cushing syndrome :
Cushing syndrome is caused by having too much cortisol in the body. Cortisol is a hormone that is made in the adrenal glands. It helps the body respond to stress and plays many other important roles, including:
Controlling blood pressure.
Reducing inflammation.
Helping the heart and blood vessels work correctly.
Controlling blood sugar.
Helping the body use food for energy.
There are no Risk Factors available for Cushing syndrome in the knowledge baseComplications for Cushing syndrome:
Without treatment, Cushing syndrome can cause complications, including:
Bone loss, also called osteoporosis, which can lead to broken bones.
High blood pressure, also called hypertension.
Type 2 diabetes.
Serious or multiple infections.
Loss of muscle mass and strength.
There are no preventive measures available for Cushing syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma
Overview of Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Cutaneous B-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma
Overview of Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma:
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a rare type of cancer that begins in white blood cells called T cells (T lymphocytes). These cells normally help your body's germ-fighting immune system. In cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the T cells develop abnormalities that make them attack the skin.
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma can cause rash-like skin redness, slightly raised or scaly round patches on the skin, and, sometimes, skin tumors.
Several types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma exist. The most common type is mycosis fungoides. Sezary syndrome is a less common type that causes skin redness over the entire body. Some types of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, such as mycosis fungoides, progress slowly and others are more aggressive.
The type of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma you have helps determine which treatments are best for you. Treatments can include skin creams, light therapy, radiation therapy and systemic medications, such as chemotherapy.
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma is one of several types of lymphoma collectively called non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Home Remedies for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma:
Taking measures to care for your skin may help relieve symptoms, such as itching, and reduce your risk of infections. Your doctor may give you specific treatments to control itching and manage your infection risk.
It may also help to:
Use mild, unscented soap. Using a mild soap that doesn't cause additional irritation may help control itchiness.
Keep skin moisturized. Applying lotion to your skin after showers and baths can help control itchiness and create a barrier to protect against germs that can cause infections.
Ask about bleach baths. Ask your doctor whether it may be helpful for you to take regular bleach baths or soaks to reduce your risk of infections. For a bleach bath, add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measures are for a U.S.-standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes. Soak for up to 10 minutes two or three times a week. After, rinse with clean water and apply moisturizer.
Symptoms for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma :
Signs and symptoms of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma include:
Round patches of skin that may be raised or scaly and might be itchy
Patches of skin that appear lighter in color than surrounding skin
Lumps that form on the skin and may break open
Enlarged lymph nodes
Hair loss
Thickening of the skin on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet
A rash-like skin redness over the entire body that is intensely itchy
Causes for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma :
The exact cause of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma isn't known.
In general, cancer begins when cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains instructions that tell a cell what to do. The DNA mutations tell the cells to grow and multiply rapidly, creating many abnormal cells.
In cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, the mutations cause too many abnormal T cells that attack the skin. T cells are part of your immune system, and they normally help your body fight germs. Doctors don't know why the cells attack the skin.
There are no Risk Factors available for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder)
Overview of Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder):
Cyclothymia (sy-kloe-THIE-me-uh), also called cyclothymic disorder, is a rare mood disorder. Cyclothymia causes emotional ups and downs, but they're not as extreme as those in bipolar I or II disorder.
With cyclothymia, you experience periods when your mood noticeably shifts up and down from your baseline. You may feel on top of the world for a time, followed by a low period when you feel somewhat down. Between these cyclothymic highs and lows, you may feel stable and fine.
Although the highs and lows of cyclothymia are less extreme than those of bipolar disorder, it's critical to seek help managing these symptoms because they can interfere with your ability to function and increase your risk of bipolar I or II disorder.
Treatment options for cyclothymia include talk therapy (psychotherapy), medications and close, ongoing follow-up with your doctor.
Home Remedies for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder):
In addition to professional treatment, you can build on your treatment plan by following these lifestyle and self-care steps:
Take your medications as directed. Even if you're feeling well, resist any temptation to skip your medications. If you stop, cyclothymia symptoms are likely to come back.
Pay attention to warning signs. You may have identified a pattern to your cyclothymia symptoms and what triggers them. Follow your treatment plan if you feel you're facing a period of high or low symptoms. Involve family members or friends in watching for warning signs. Addressing symptoms early may keep them from getting worse.
Quit drinking or using recreational drugs. Alcohol and recreational drugs may trigger mood changes. Talk to your doctor if you have trouble quitting on your own.
Check first before taking other medications. Call the doctor who's treating you for cyclothymia before you take over-the-counter medications or medications prescribed by another doctor. Sometimes other medications trigger periods of cyclothymia symptoms or may interfere with medications you're already taking.
Keep a record. Track your moods, daily routines and significant life events. These records may help you and your mental health provider understand the effect of treatments and identify thinking patterns and behaviors associated with cyclothymia symptoms.
Get regular physical activity and exercise. Moderate, regular physical activity and exercise can help steady your mood. Working out releases brain chemicals that make you feel good (endorphins). It can also help you sleep and has a number of other benefits. Check with your doctor before starting any exercise program.
Get plenty of sleep. Don't stay up all night. Instead, get plenty of sleep. Sleeping enough is an important part of managing your mood. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your doctor or mental health provider about what you can do.
Symptoms for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder) :
Cyclothymia symptoms alternate between emotional highs and lows. The highs of cyclothymia include symptoms of an elevated mood (hypomanic symptoms). The lows consist of mild or moderate depressive symptoms.
Cyclothymia symptoms are similar to those of bipolar I or II disorder, but they're less severe. When you have cyclothymia, you can typically function in your daily life, though not always well. The unpredictable nature of your mood shifts may significantly disrupt your life because you never know how you're going to feel.
Causes for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder) :
It's not known specifically what causes cyclothymia. As with many mental health disorders, research shows that it may result from a combination of:
Genetics, as cyclothymia tends to run in families
Differences in the way the brain works, such as changes in the brain's neurobiology
Environmental issues, such as traumatic experiences or prolonged periods of stress
Risk Factors for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder):
Cyclothymia is thought to be relatively rare. But true estimates are hard to make because people may be undiagnosed or misdiagnosed as having other mood disorders, such as depression.
Cyclothymia typically starts during the teenage years or young adulthood. It affects about the same number of males and females.
Complications for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder):
If you have cyclothymia:
Not treating it can result in significant emotional problems that affect every area of your life
There is a high risk of later developing bipolar I or II disorder
Substance misuse is common
You may also have an anxiety disorder
You may be at increased risk of suicidal thoughts and suicide
Preventions for Cyclothymia (cyclothymic disorder)
There's no sure way to prevent cyclothymia. However, treatment at the earliest indication of a mental health disorder can help prevent cyclothymia from worsening. Long-term preventive treatment also can help prevent minor symptoms from becoming full-blown episodes of hypomania, mania or major depression.
Condition name:Cystic fibrosis
Overview of Cystic fibrosis:
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disorder that causes severe damage to the lungs, digestive system and other organs in the body.
Cystic fibrosis affects the cells that produce mucus, sweat and digestive juices. These secreted fluids are normally thin and slippery. But in people with CF, a defective gene causes the secretions to become sticky and thick. Instead of acting as lubricants, the secretions plug up tubes, ducts and passageways, especially in the lungs and pancreas.
Although cystic fibrosis is progressive and requires daily care, people with CF are usually able to attend school and work. They often have a better quality of life than people with CF had in previous decades. Improvements in screening and treatments mean that people with CF now may live into their mid- to late 30s or 40s, and some are living into their 50s.
Home Remedies for Cystic fibrosis:
You can manage your condition and minimize complications in several ways.
Pay attention to nutrition and fluid intake
Cystic fibrosis can cause malnourishment because the enzymes needed for digestion can't reach your small intestine, preventing food from being absorbed. People with CF may need a much higher number of calories daily than do people without the condition.
A healthy diet is important to growth and development and to maintain good lung function. It's also important to drink lots of fluids, which can help thin the mucus in your lungs. You may work with a dietitian to develop a nutrition plan.
Your doctor may recommend:
Pancreatic enzyme capsules with every meal and snack
Medications to suppress acid production
Supplemental high-calorie nutrition
Special fat-soluble vitamins
Extra fiber to prevent intestinal blockage
Extra salt, especially during hot weather or before exercising
Adequate water intake, especially during hot weather
Keep vaccinations up to date
In addition to receiving other usual childhood vaccines, people with cystic fibrosis should have the annual flu vaccine and any other vaccines their doctors recommend, such as the vaccine to prevent pneumonia. CF doesn't affect the immune system, but children with CF are more likely to develop complications when they become sick.
Exercise
Regular exercise helps loosen mucus in your airways and strengthens your heart. Because people with cystic fibrosis are living longer, maintaining good cardiovascular fitness for a healthy life is important. Anything that gets you moving, including walking and biking, can help.
Eliminate smoke
Don't smoke, and don't allow other people to smoke around you or your child. Secondhand smoke is harmful for everyone, but especially for people with cystic fibrosis, as is air pollution.
Encourage hand-washing
Teach all the members of your family to wash their hands thoroughly before eating, after using the bathroom, when coming home from work or school, and after being around a person who is sick. Hand-washing is the best way to protect against infection.
Attend medical appointments
You'll have ongoing care from your doctor and other medical professionals.
Make sure to attend your regular follow-up appointments.
Take your medications as prescribed and follow therapies as instructed.
Talk to your doctor about how to manage symptoms and the warning signs of serious complications.
Symptoms for Cystic fibrosis :
In the U.S., because of newborn screening, cystic fibrosis can be diagnosed within the first month of life, before symptoms develop. But people born before newborn screening became available may not be diagnosed until the signs and symptoms of CF show up.
Cystic fibrosis signs and symptoms vary, depending on the severity of the disease. Even in the same person, symptoms may worsen or improve as time passes. Some people may not experience symptoms until their teenage years or adulthood. People who are not diagnosed until adulthood usually have milder disease and are more likely to have atypical symptoms, such as recurring bouts of an inflamed pancreas (pancreatitis), infertility and recurring pneumonia.
People with cystic fibrosis have a higher than normal level of salt in their sweat. Parents often can taste the salt when they kiss their children. Most of the other signs and symptoms of CF affect the respiratory system and digestive system.
Causes for Cystic fibrosis :
In cystic fibrosis, a defect (mutation) in a gene — the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene — changes a protein that regulates the movement of salt in and out of cells. The result is thick, sticky mucus in the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems, as well as increased salt in sweat.
Many different defects can occur in the gene. The type of gene mutation is associated with the severity of the condition.
Children need to inherit one copy of the gene from each parent in order to have the disease. If children inherit only one copy, they won't develop cystic fibrosis. However, they will be carriers and could pass the gene to their own children.
Risk Factors for Cystic fibrosis:
Because cystic fibrosis is an inherited disorder, it runs in families, so family history is a risk factor. Although CF occurs in all races, it's most common in white people of Northern European ancestry.
Complications for Cystic fibrosis:
Complications of cystic fibrosis can affect the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems, as well as other organs.
There are no preventive measures available for Cystic fibrosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Cystitis
Overview of Cystitis:
Cystitis (sis-TIE-tis) is the medical term for inflammation of the bladder. Inflammation is when a part of your body is swollen and hot. It can also be painful.
Most of the time, cystitis happens when there's an infection caused by bacteria. This is called a urinary tract infection (UTI). Having a bladder infection can be painful and annoying. It can become a serious health problem if the infection spreads to your kidneys.
Cystitis also may occur as a reaction to certain drugs or radiation therapy. Things that sometimes irritate the bladder, such as hygiene products, spermicide jelly or long-term catheter use, can also lead to cystitis. Cystitis can also happen as a complication of another illness.
The usual treatment for cystitis caused by bacteria is to take antibiotic medication. Treatment for other types of cystitis depends on the cause.
Home Remedies for Cystitis:
Cystitis can be painful. To ease discomfort:
Use a heating pad. A heating pad placed on your lower abdomen may soothe bladder pressure or pain.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of fluids to keep yourself hydrated. Avoid coffee, alcohol, soft drinks with caffeine and citrus juices. Also avoid spicy foods until your infection clears. These items can irritate the bladder and make a frequent or urgent need to urinate worse.
For recurrent bladder infections, ask your provider about ways you can reduce the chance that you'll have another infection.
Symptoms for Cystitis :
Cystitis signs and symptoms may include:
A strong, persistent urge to urinate
Pain or a burning feeling when urinating
Passing frequent, small amounts of urine
Blood in the urine (hematuria)
Passing cloudy or strong-smelling urine
Pelvic discomfort
A feeling of pressure in the area below your belly button (abdomen)
Low-grade fever
In young children, new episodes of accidental daytime wetting also may be a sign of a urinary tract infection (UTI). Nighttime bed-wetting on its own isn't likely to happen because of a UTI.
Causes for Cystitis :
Your urinary system includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. All play a role in removing waste from your body.
Your kidneys are a pair of bean-shaped organs located toward the back of your upper abdomen. They filter waste from your blood and regulate the concentrations of many substances.
Tubes called ureters carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. The bladder stores the urine until you feel the need to urinate. Urine then leaves your body through the urethra.
Risk Factors for Cystitis:
Some people are more likely than others to develop bladder infections or repeated urinary tract infections. Women can have this problem. A key reason is physical anatomy. Women have a short urethra. This means bacteria that can cause an infection don't have as far to travel to reach the bladder.
You may be at greater risk of bladder infections or repeated UTIs if you:
Are sexually active. During sex, bacteria can be pushed into the urethra.
Use certain types of birth control. Using a diaphragm increases the risk of a UTI. Diaphragms that contain spermicide may increase risk even more.
Are pregnant. Hormone changes during pregnancy may increase the risk of a bladder infection.
Have gone through menopause. Changes to hormones that happen after menopause often can lead to UTIs.
Other risk factors include:
Interference with the flow of urine. This can occur in conditions such as a stone in the bladder or an enlarged prostate.
Changes in the immune system. This can happen with certain conditions, such as diabetes, HIV infection and cancer treatment.
Long-term use of urinary catheters. These tubes may be needed in people with chronic illnesses or in older adults. Prolonged use can put you at greater risk of bacterial infections as well as bladder tissue damage.
In generally healthy men, cystitis is rare.
Complications for Cystitis:
When treated right away with the proper medicine, bladder infections rarely lead to complications. But if they aren't treated, they can become something more serious. Complications may include:
Kidney infection. An untreated bladder infection can lead to a kidney infection. This is also called pyelonephritis (pie-uh-low-nuh-FRY-tis). Kidney infections may permanently damage the kidneys.
Blood in the urine. With cystitis, you may have blood cells in the urine. Often, they can be seen only with a microscope. This condition is called microscopic hematuria. It usually goes away after treatment. If blood cells still appear in the urine after treatment, you may need to see a specialist to find out the cause.
Blood in the urine that you can see is called gross hematuria. This happens rarely with typical, bacterial cystitis. But this sign may be more common if you have cystitis that happens after chemotherapy or radiation therapy for cancer.
Preventions for Cystitis
Self-care measures to prevent repeated bladder infections aren't well studied. But some providers recommend these tips for prevention:
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking lots of fluids is especially important after chemotherapy or radiation therapy, particularly on treatment days.
Urinate frequently. If you feel the urge to urinate, don't delay using the toilet.
Wipe from front to back after a bowel movement. This prevents bacteria in the anal region from spreading to the vagina and urethra.
Take showers rather than tub baths. If you're prone to infections, showering rather than taking a bath may help prevent them.
Gently wash the skin around the genitals. Do this daily, but don't use harsh soaps or wash too vigorously. The delicate skin in this area can become irritated.
Empty your bladder as soon as possible after sex. Drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid using deodorant sprays or hygiene products in the genital area. These products can irritate the urethra and bladder.
Condition name:Dandruff
Overview of Dandruff:
Dandruff is a common condition that causes the skin on the scalp to flake. It isn't contagious or serious. But it can be embarrassing and difficult to treat.
Mild dandruff can be treated with a gentle daily shampoo. If that doesn't work, a medicated shampoo may help. Symptoms may return later.
Dandruff is a mild form of seborrheic dermatitis.
Home Remedies for Dandruff:
You can take steps to reduce your risk of developing dandruff or to control it:
Learn to manage stress. Stress affects your overall health, making you susceptible to a number of conditions and diseases. It can even help trigger dandruff or worsen existing symptoms.
Eat a healthy diet. A diet that provides enough zinc, B vitamins and certain types of fats may help prevent dandruff.
Develop a hair and scalp care routine that suits you. If you tend to have an oily scalp, daily shampooing may help prevent dandruff. Gently massage your scalp to loosen flakes. Rinse thoroughly. If your hair tends to be dry and your scalp is sensitive, shampoo less frequently and condition your scalp between washings (Design Essentials, Melanin Haircare, ScalpBliss).
Get a little sun. Sunlight may be good for controlling dandruff. But because exposure to ultraviolet light damages your skin and increases your risk of skin cancer, don't sunbathe. Instead, just spend a little time outdoors. And be sure to wear sunscreen on your face and body.
Limit hair-styling products. Hair-styling products can build up on your hair and scalp, making them oilier.
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Tips for dealing with dandruff
Symptoms for Dandruff :
Dandruff signs and symptoms may include:
Skin flakes on your scalp, hair, eyebrows, beard or mustache, and shoulders
Itchy scalp
Scaly, crusty scalp in infants with cradle cap
The signs and symptoms may be more severe if you're stressed, and they tend to flare in cold, dry seasons.
Causes for Dandruff :
Dandruff may have several causes, including:
Irritated, oily skin
Dry skin
A yeastlike fungus (malassezia) that feeds on oils on the scalps of most adults
Sensitivity to hair care products (contact dermatitis)
Other skin conditions, such as psoriasis and eczema
Risk Factors for Dandruff:
Almost anyone can have dandruff, but certain factors can make you more susceptible:
Age. Dandruff usually begins in young adulthood and continues through middle age. That doesn't mean older adults don't get dandruff. For some people, the problem can be lifelong.
Being male. Dandruff is more prevalent in males than in females.
Certain illnesses. Parkinson's disease and other diseases that affect the nervous system also seem to increase risk of dandruff. So does having HIV or a weakened immune system.
There are no Complications available for Dandruff in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Dandruff in the knowledge baseCondition name:De Quervain tenosynovitis
Overview of De Quervain tenosynovitis:
De Quervain tenosynovitis (dih-kwer-VAIN ten-oh-sine-oh-VIE-tis) is a painful condition affecting the tendons on the thumb side of the wrist. If you have de Quervain tenosynovitis, you will probably feel pain when you turn your wrist, grasp anything or make a fist.
Although the exact cause of de Quervain tenosynovitis isn't known, any activity that relies on repetitive hand or wrist movement — such as working in the garden, playing golf or racket sports, or lifting a baby — can make it worse.
Home Remedies for De Quervain tenosynovitis:
If you don't need surgery, caring for your condition is much the same as preventing it:
Avoid moving your wrists the same way repeatedly.
Wear a brace or splint if suggested by your health care provider.
Follow through with recommended exercises.
Note activity that causes pain, swelling or numbness in your thumb and wrist. Try to avoid this activity and share the information with your provider.
Symptoms for De Quervain tenosynovitis :
Symptoms of de Quervain tenosynovitis include:
Pain near the base of the thumb
Swelling near the base of the thumb
Difficulty moving the thumb and wrist when doing something that involves grasping or pinching
A "sticking" or "stop-and-go" sensation in the thumb when moving it
If the condition goes too long without treatment, the pain may spread farther into the thumb or forearm or both. Moving the thumb and wrist may make the pain worse.
Causes for De Quervain tenosynovitis :
De Quervain tenosynovitis affects the two tendons on the thumb side of the wrist. Tendons are ropelike structures that attach muscle to bone.
Chronic overuse, such as repeating a particular hand motion day after day, may irritate the covering around the tendons. If the covering becomes irritated, the tendons can thicken and swell. This thickening and swelling restrict the movement of the tendons through the small tunnel that connects them to the base of the thumb.
Other causes of de Quervain tenosynovitis include:
Inflammatory arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis.
Direct injury to the wrist or tendon, which may cause scar tissue that restricts movement of the tendons
Fluid retention, such as from changes in hormones during pregnancy
Risk Factors for De Quervain tenosynovitis:
Risk factors for de Quervain tenosynovitis include:
Age. People between the ages of 30 and 50 have a higher risk of developing de Quervain tenosynovitis than do people in other age groups, including children.
Sex. The condition is more common in women.
Being pregnant. The condition may be associated with pregnancy.
Baby care. Lifting a child repeatedly involves using the thumbs as leverage and may be associated with the condition.
Jobs or hobbies that involve repetitive hand and wrist motions. These may contribute to de Quervain tenosynovitis.
Complications for De Quervain tenosynovitis:
When de Quervain tenosynovitis goes untreated, it can become difficult to use the hand and wrist properly. The wrist may lose some range of motion.
There are no preventive measures available for De Quervain tenosynovitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Delayed ejaculation
Overview of Delayed ejaculation:
Delayed ejaculation is a condition in which it takes a long period of sexual arousal to reach climax and release semen from the penis, called ejaculate. Some people with delayed ejaculation can't ejaculate at all.
Delayed ejaculation can be a brief or lifelong problem. Possible causes of delayed ejaculation include certain ongoing health conditions, surgeries and medicines. Treatment for delayed ejaculation depends on the cause.
Delayed ejaculation can happen from time to time. Delayed ejaculation is a problem only if it's ongoing and causes stress or worry for you and your partner.
There are no home remedies available for Delayed ejaculation in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Delayed ejaculation :
There's no set time that means a diagnosis of delayed ejaculation. Some people with delayed ejaculation need many minutes of sexual stimulation to have an orgasm and ejaculate. Others might not be able to ejaculate at all, called anejaculation.
In delayed ejaculation, the delay causes upset. Also delayed ejaculation might mean stopping sex due to tiredness, physical irritation, loss of erection or because the partner wants to stop.
Often, there's trouble reaching orgasm during sexual intercourse or other sexual activities with a partner. Some people can ejaculate only when masturbating. But others may not be able to ejaculate by masturbating.
Delayed ejaculation is divided into the following types based on symptoms:
Lifelong versus acquired. With lifelong delayed ejaculation, the problem is present from the time of sexual maturity. Acquired delayed ejaculation happens after a period of typical sexual functioning.
Generalized versus situational. Generalized delayed ejaculation isn't limited to certain sex partners or certain kinds of arousal. Situational delayed ejaculation happens only under certain conditions.
Causes for Delayed ejaculation :
Some medicines, certain ongoing health conditions and surgeries can cause delayed ejaculation. Other causes include substance misuse or a mental health concern, such as depression, anxiety or stress. Often, it's due to a mix of physical and psychological concerns.
Psychological causes of delayed ejaculation include:
Depression, anxiety or other mental health conditions.
Relationship problems due to stress, not communicating well or other concerns.
Anxiety about performance.
Poor body image.
Cultural or religious taboos.
Differences between the reality of sex with a partner and sexual fantasies.
Medicines and other substances that can cause delayed ejaculation include:
Some antidepressants or antipsychotics.
Certain high blood pressure medicines.
Certain water pills, called diuretics.
Some antipsychotic medicines.
Some antiseizure medicines.
Too much alcohol.
Physical causes of delayed ejaculation include:
Certain birth defects that affect the reproductive system.
Injury to the pelvic nerves that control orgasm.
Certain infections, such as a urinary tract infection.
Prostate surgery, such as transurethral resection of the prostate or prostate removal.
Neurological diseases, such as diabetic neuropathy, stroke or nerve damage to the spinal cord.
Hormone-related conditions, such as low thyroid hormone level, called hypothyroidism, or low testosterone level, called hypogonadism.
A condition in which the semen goes backward into the bladder rather than out of the penis, called retrograde ejaculation.
Risk Factors for Delayed ejaculation:
The following can increase the risk of having delayed ejaculation:
Older age. With aging, ejaculation takes longer.
Psychological conditions, such as depression or anxiety.
Medical conditions, such as diabetes or multiple sclerosis.
Certain medical treatments, such as prostate surgery.
Medicines, such as certain antidepressants, high blood pressure medicines or water pills, called diuretics.
Relationship problems, such as not being able to talk to your partner.
Excessive alcohol use, especially long-term heavy drinking.
Complications for Delayed ejaculation:
Complications of delayed ejaculation can include:
Less sexual pleasure for you and your partner.
Stress or anxiety about having sex.
Marital or relationship problems due to a poor sex life.
Not being able to get your partner pregnant, called infertility.
There are no preventive measures available for Delayed ejaculation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Delayed sleep phase
Overview of Delayed sleep phase:
Delayed sleep phase is a sleep disorder that affects the internal clock, known as circadian rhythm. People with this sleep disorder have sleep patterns that are delayed two hours or more from usual sleep patterns. They go to sleep later and wake later. This makes it hard to wake in time for work or school. Delayed sleep phase also is known as delayed sleep-wake phase disorder.
A treatment plan might include making changes to sleep habits, taking melatonin supplements and using light therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Delayed sleep phase in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Delayed sleep phase :
People with delayed sleep phase fall asleep and wake later than they want and later than usual sleep and wake times. Sleep and wake times are delayed at least two hours and may be delayed up to 3 to 6 hours. People with delayed sleep phase may regularly go to sleep at 3 a.m. and wake at 10 a.m., for example.
Symptoms are persistent. They last at least three months and often for years. Symptoms may include:
Not being able to fall asleep at a typical bedtime, known as insomnia.
Trouble waking up in the morning in time to go to work or school.
Extreme daytime drowsiness.
Trouble staying alert during the day.
Causes for Delayed sleep phase :
Delayed sleep phase is caused by a person's internal clock being out of sync with the environment. Your internal clock lets you know when it's time to sleep and when it's time to wake. Known as circadian rhythm, your internal clock is on a 24-hour cycle. Cues in the environment influence the sleep-wake cycle. These cues include light, darkness, eating and physical activity.
The exact cause of delayed sleep phase isn't known. But circadian rhythms can be delayed in teenagers for biological reasons. Staying up late to do homework, watch TV or use the internet can make the sleep delay worse.
Risk Factors for Delayed sleep phase:
Delayed sleep phase can affect children and adults of any age. However, delayed sleep phase is more common among teenagers and young adults.
There are no Complications available for Delayed sleep phase in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Delayed sleep phase in the knowledge baseCondition name:Delirium
Overview of Delirium:
Delirium is a serious change in mental abilities. It results in confused thinking and a lack of awareness of someone's surroundings. The disorder usually comes on fast — within hours or a few days.
Delirium can often be traced to one or more factors. Factors may include a severe or long illness or an imbalance in the body, such as low sodium. The disorder also may be caused by certain medicines, infection, surgery, or alcohol or drug use or withdrawal.
Symptoms of delirium are sometimes confused with symptoms of dementia. Health care providers may rely on input from a family member or caregiver to diagnose the disorder.
There are no home remedies available for Delirium in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Delirium :
Symptoms of delirium usually begin over a few hours or a few days. They typically occur with a medical problem. Symptoms often come and go during the day. There may be periods of no symptoms. Symptoms tend to be worse at night when it's dark and things look less familiar. They also tend to be worse in settings that aren't familiar, such as in a hospital.
Primary symptoms include the following.
Causes for Delirium :
Delirium occurs when signals in the brain aren't sent and received properly.
The disorder may have a single cause or more than one cause. For example, a medical condition combined with the side effects of a medicine could cause delirium. Sometimes no cause can be found. Possible causes include:
Certain medicines or medicine side effects
Alcohol or drug use or withdrawal
A medical condition such as a stroke, heart attack, worsening lung or liver disease, or an injury from a fall
An imbalance in the body, such as low sodium or low calcium
Severe, long-lasting illness or an illness that will lead to death
Fever and a new infection, particularly in children
Urinary tract infection, pneumonia, the flu or COVID-19, especially in older adults
Exposure to a toxin, such as carbon monoxide, cyanide or other poisons
Poor nutrition or a loss of too much body fluid
Lack of sleep or severe emotional distress
Pain
Surgery or another medical procedure that requires being put in a sleep-like state
Some medicines taken alone or taken in combination can trigger delirium. These include medicines that treat:
Pain
Sleep problems
Mood disorders, such as anxiety and depression
Allergies
Asthma
Swelling
Parkinson's disease
Spasms or convulsions
Risk Factors for Delirium:
Any condition that results in a hospital stay increases the risk of delirium. This is mostly true when someone is recovering from surgery or is put in intensive care. Delirium is more common in older adults and in people who live in nursing homes.
Examples of other conditions that may increase the risk of delirium include:
Brain disorders such as dementia, stroke or Parkinson's disease
Past delirium episodes
Vision or hearing loss
Multiple medical problems
Complications for Delirium:
Delirium may last only a few hours or as long as several weeks or months. If the causes are addressed, the recovery time is often shorter.
Recovery depends to some extent on the health and mental status before symptoms began. People with dementia, for example, may experience an overall decline in memory and thinking skills after a delirium episode. People in better health are more likely to fully recover.
People with other serious, long-lasting or terminal illnesses may not regain the thinking skills or function that they had before the onset of delirium. Delirium in seriously ill people is more likely to lead to:
A general decline in health
Poor recovery from surgery
The need for long-term care
An increased risk of death
Preventions for Delirium
The best way to prevent delirium is to target risk factors that might trigger an episode. Hospital settings present a special challenge. Hospital stays often involve room changes, invasive procedures, loud noises and poor lighting. Lack of natural light and lack of sleep can make confusion worse.
Some steps can help prevent or reduce the severity of delirium. To do this, promote good sleep habits, help the person remain calm and well-oriented, and help prevent medical problems or other complications. Also avoid medicines used for sleep, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl Allergy, Unisom, others).
Condition name:Dementia
Overview of Dementia:
Dementia is a term used to describe a group of symptoms affecting memory, thinking and social abilities. In people who have dementia, the symptoms interfere with their daily lives. Dementia isn't one specific disease. Several diseases can cause dementia.
Dementia generally involves memory loss. It's often one of the early symptoms of the condition. But having memory loss alone doesn't mean you have dementia. Memory loss can have different causes.
Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia in older adults, but there are other causes of dementia. Depending on the cause, some dementia symptoms might be reversible.
Home Remedies for Dementia:
Dementia symptoms and behavior problems get worse over time. Caregivers and care partners might try the following suggestions:
Enhance communication. When talking with your loved one, maintain eye contact. Speak slowly in simple sentences, and don't rush the response. Present one idea or instruction at a time. Use gestures and cues, such as pointing to objects.
Encourage exercise. The main benefits of exercise in people with dementia include improved strength, balance and cardiovascular health. Exercise also might help with symptoms such as restlessness. There is growing evidence that exercise also protects the brain from dementia, especially when combined with a healthy diet and treatment of risk factors for cardiovascular disease.
Some research also shows that physical activity might slow the progression of impaired thinking in people with Alzheimer's disease. It also can lessen symptoms of depression.
Engage in activity. Plan activities the person with dementia enjoys and can do. Dancing, painting, gardening, cooking, singing and other activities can help you connect with your loved one. The activities also can help people with dementia focus on what they can still do.
Establish a nighttime routine. Behavior is often worse at night. Try to establish going-to-bed routines. Aim for a calming routine away from the noise of television, meal cleanup and active family members. Leave night lights on in the bedroom, hall and bathroom to prevent disorientation.
Limiting caffeine, discouraging napping and offering opportunities for exercise during the day might ease nighttime restlessness.
Keep a calendar. A calendar might help your loved one remember upcoming events, daily activities and medicine schedules. Consider sharing a calendar with your loved one.
Plan for the future. Develop a plan while your loved one is still able to participate. The plan can state goals for future care. Support groups, legal advisers, family members and others might be able to help.
You'll also need to consider financial and legal issues, safety and daily living concerns, and long-term care options.
Symptoms for Dementia :
Dementia symptoms vary depending on the cause. Common symptoms include:
Causes for Dementia :
Dementia is caused by damage to or loss of nerve cells and their connections in the brain. The symptoms depend on the area of the brain that's damaged. Dementia can affect people differently.
Dementias are often grouped by what they have in common. They may be grouped by the protein or proteins deposited in the brain or by the part of the brain that's affected. Also, some diseases have symptoms like those of dementia. And some medicines can cause a reaction that includes dementia symptoms. Not getting enough of certain vitamins or minerals also can cause dementia symptoms. When this occurs, dementia symptoms may improve with treatment.
Risk Factors for Dementia:
Many factors can eventually contribute to dementia. Some factors, such as age, can't be changed. You can address other factors to reduce your risk.
Complications for Dementia:
Dementia can affect many body systems and, therefore, the ability to function. Dementia can lead to:
Poor nutrition. Many people with dementia eventually reduce or stop eating, affecting their nutrient intake. Ultimately, they may be unable to chew and swallow.
Pneumonia. Trouble swallowing increases the risk of choking. And food or liquids can enter the lungs, known as aspiration. This can block breathing and cause pneumonia.
Inability to perform self-care tasks. As dementia gets worse, people have a hard time bathing, dressing, and brushing their hair or teeth. They need help using the toilet and taking medicines as directed.
Personal safety challenges. Some day-to-day situations can present safety issues for people with dementia. These include driving, cooking, and walking and living alone.
Death. Coma and death can occur in late-stage dementia. This often happens because of an infection.
Preventions for Dementia
There's no sure way to prevent dementia, but there are steps you can take that might help. More research is needed, but it might help to do the following:
Keep your mind active. Mentally stimulating activities might delay the onset of dementia and decrease its effects. Spend time reading, solving puzzles and playing word games.
Be physically and socially active. Physical activity and social interaction might delay the onset of dementia and reduce its symptoms. Aim for 150 minutes of exercise a week.
Quit smoking. Some studies have shown that smoking in middle age and beyond might increase the risk of dementia and blood vessel conditions. Quitting smoking might reduce the risk and improve health.
Get enough vitamins. Some research suggests that people with low levels of vitamin D in their blood are more likely to develop Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. You can increase your vitamin D levels with certain foods, supplements and sun exposure.
More study is needed before an increase in vitamin D intake is recommended for preventing dementia. But it's a good idea to make sure you get adequate vitamin D. Taking a daily B-complex vitamin and vitamin C also might help.
Manage cardiovascular risk factors. Treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. Pay attention to your levels of LDL cholesterol and get treatment if the levels are too high. High levels of LDL in middle age raises the risk of dementia. Lose weight if you're overweight.
High blood pressure might lead to a higher risk of some types of dementia. More research is needed to determine whether treating high blood pressure may reduce the risk of dementia.
Treat health conditions. See your doctor for treatment of depression or anxiety.
Maintain a healthy diet. A diet such as the Mediterranean diet might promote health and lower the risk of developing dementia. A Mediterranean diet is rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and omega-3 fatty acids, which are commonly found in certain fish and nuts. This type of diet also improves cardiovascular health, which also may help lower dementia risk.
Get good-quality sleep. Practice good sleep hygiene. Talk to a health care professional if you snore loudly or have periods where you stop breathing or gasp during sleep.
Treat hearing loss. People with hearing loss have a greater chance of developing problems with thinking, known as cognitive decline. Early treatment of hearing loss, such as use of hearing aids, might help decrease the risk.
Get regular eye exams and treat vision loss. Research suggests that not treating vision loss may be associated with a raised risk of dementia.
Condition name:Dengue fever
Overview of Dengue fever:
Dengue (DENG-gey) fever is a mosquito-borne illness that occurs in tropical and subtropical areas of the world. Mild dengue fever causes a high fever and flu-like symptoms. The severe form of dengue fever, also called dengue hemorrhagic fever, can cause serious bleeding, a sudden drop in blood pressure (shock) and death.
Millions of cases of dengue infection occur worldwide each year. Dengue fever is most common in Southeast Asia, the western Pacific islands, Latin America and Africa. But the disease has been spreading to new areas, including local outbreaks in Europe and southern parts of the United States.
Researchers are working on dengue fever vaccines. For now, in areas where dengue fever is common, the best ways to prevent infection are to avoid being bitten by mosquitoes and to take steps to reduce the mosquito population.
There are no home remedies available for Dengue fever in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dengue fever :
Many people experience no signs or symptoms of a dengue infection.
When symptoms do occur, they may be mistaken for other illnesses — such as the flu — and usually begin four to 10 days after you are bitten by an infected mosquito.
Dengue fever causes a high fever — 104 F (40 C) — and any of the following signs and symptoms:
Headache
Muscle, bone or joint pain
Nausea
Vomiting
Pain behind the eyes
Swollen glands
Rash
Most people recover within a week or so. In some cases, symptoms worsen and can become life-threatening. This is called severe dengue, dengue hemorrhagic fever or dengue shock syndrome.
Severe dengue happens when your blood vessels become damaged and leaky. And the number of clot-forming cells (platelets) in your bloodstream drops. This can lead to shock, internal bleeding, organ failure and even death.
Warning signs of severe dengue fever — which is a life-threatening emergency — can develop quickly. The warning signs usually begin the first day or two after your fever goes away, and may include:
Severe stomach pain
Persistent vomiting
Bleeding from your gums or nose
Blood in your urine, stools or vomit
Bleeding under the skin, which might look like bruising
Difficult or rapid breathing
Fatigue
Irritability or restlessness
Causes for Dengue fever :
Dengue fever is caused by any one of four types of dengue viruses. You can't get dengue fever from being around an infected person. Instead, dengue fever is spread through mosquito bites.
The two types of mosquitoes that most often spread the dengue viruses are common both in and around human lodgings. When a mosquito bites a person infected with a dengue virus, the virus enters the mosquito. Then, when the infected mosquito bites another person, the virus enters that person's bloodstream and causes an infection.
After you've recovered from dengue fever, you have long-term immunity to the type of virus that infected you — but not to the other three dengue fever virus types. This means you can be infected again in the future by one of the other three virus types. Your risk of developing severe dengue fever increases if you get dengue fever a second, third or fourth time.
Risk Factors for Dengue fever:
You have a greater risk of developing dengue fever or a more severe form of the disease if:
You live or travel in tropical areas. Being in tropical and subtropical areas increases your risk of exposure to the virus that causes dengue fever. Especially high-risk areas include Southeast Asia, the western Pacific islands, Latin America and Africa.
You have had dengue fever in the past. Previous infection with a dengue fever virus increases your risk of severe symptoms if you get dengue fever again.
Complications for Dengue fever:
Severe dengue fever can cause internal bleeding and organ damage. Blood pressure can drop to dangerous levels, causing shock. In some cases, severe dengue fever can lead to death.
Women who get dengue fever during pregnancy may be able to spread the virus to the baby during childbirth. Additionally, babies of women who get dengue fever during pregnancy have a higher risk of pre-term birth, low birth weight or fetal distress.
There are no preventive measures available for Dengue fever in the knowledge baseCondition name:Depersonalization-derealization disorder
Overview of Depersonalization-derealization disorder:
Depersonalization-derealization disorder occurs when you always or often feel that you're seeing yourself from outside your body or you sense that things around you are not real — or both. Feelings of depersonalization and derealization can be very disturbing. You may feel like you're living in a dream.
Many people have a passing experience of depersonalization or derealization at some point. But when these feelings keep occurring or never fully go away, and they make it hard for you to function, it's likely depersonalization-derealization disorder. This condition is more common in people who experience trauma, such as violence, abuse or other kinds of extreme stress.
Depersonalization-derealization disorder can be serious and may get in the way of your relationships and work. It also can disrupt other daily activities. The main treatment for depersonalization-derealization disorder is psychotherapy, also known as talk therapy. Sometimes medicines also are used.
There are no home remedies available for Depersonalization-derealization disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Depersonalization-derealization disorder :
Short experiences of depersonalization or derealization are fairly common. But lasting and returning bouts of these symptoms can cause problems at work or school, or in other important areas of your life. During these bouts, you know that your sense of not being connected to your body or your surroundings are only feelings and not reality.
The experience and feelings of the condition can be hard to describe. Worrying about "going crazy" can cause you to become focused on checking that you exist and finding out what's real.
Symptoms usually begin in the middle or late teenage years, or in early adulthood. Depersonalization-derealization disorder is rare in children and older adults.
Causes for Depersonalization-derealization disorder :
The cause of depersonalization-derealization disorder is not well understood. Some people may be more likely to experience depersonalization and derealization than others. This is possibly due to genetic and environmental factors. High levels of stress and fear may cause bouts.
Symptoms of depersonalization-derealization disorder may be related to childhood trauma or other experiences or events that cause severe emotional stress or trauma.
Risk Factors for Depersonalization-derealization disorder:
Factors that may raise the risk of depersonalization-derealization disorder include:
Certain personality traits that make you want to stay away from stressful situations or make it hard to describe your emotional experience.
Serious trauma as a child or an adult, like going through or seeing a traumatic event, such as violence or abuse.
Serious stress, such as major relationship, financial or work-related issues.
Depression or anxiety, especially serious depression, depression that lasts a long time or anxiety with panic attacks.
Drug misuse, which can cause bouts of depersonalization or derealization.
Complications for Depersonalization-derealization disorder:
Bouts of depersonalization or derealization can be scary and make it hard to function. They can:
Make it hard to focus on tasks or remember things.
Get in the way of work and other routine activities.
Cause problems in relationships with your family and friends.
Make you feel anxious, depressed or hopeless.
There are no preventive measures available for Depersonalization-derealization disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Depression (major depressive disorder)
Overview of Depression (major depressive disorder):
Depression is a mood disorder that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest. Also called major depressive disorder or clinical depression, it affects how you feel, think and behave and can lead to a variety of emotional and physical problems. You may have trouble doing normal day-to-day activities, and sometimes you may feel as if life isn't worth living.
More than just a bout of the blues, depression isn't a weakness and you can't simply "snap out" of it. Depression may require long-term treatment. But don't get discouraged. Most people with depression feel better with medication, psychotherapy or both.
Home Remedies for Depression (major depressive disorder):
Depression generally isn't a disorder that you can treat on your own. But in addition to professional treatment, these self-care steps can help:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip psychotherapy sessions or appointments. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medications. If you stop, depression symptoms may come back, and you could also experience withdrawal-like symptoms. Recognize that it will take time to feel better.
Learn about depression. Education about your condition can empower you and motivate you to stick to your treatment plan. Encourage your family to learn about depression to help them understand and support you.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger your depression symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if your symptoms get worse. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Ask relatives or friends to help watch for warning signs.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. It may seem like alcohol or drugs lessen depression symptoms, but in the long run they generally worsen symptoms and make depression harder to treat. Talk with your doctor or therapist if you need help with alcohol or substance use.
Take care of yourself. Eat healthy, be physically active and get plenty of sleep. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or another activity that you enjoy. Sleeping well is important for both your physical and mental well-being. If you're having trouble sleeping, talk to your doctor about what you can do.
More Information
Depression (major depressive disorder) care at Mayo Clinic
Depression, anxiety and exercise
Symptoms for Depression (major depressive disorder) :
Although depression may occur only once during your life, people typically have multiple episodes. During these episodes, symptoms occur most of the day, nearly every day and may include:
Feelings of sadness, tearfulness, emptiness or hopelessness
Angry outbursts, irritability or frustration, even over small matters
Loss of interest or pleasure in most or all normal activities, such as sex, hobbies or sports
Sleep disturbances, including insomnia or sleeping too much
Tiredness and lack of energy, so even small tasks take extra effort
Reduced appetite and weight loss or increased cravings for food and weight gain
Anxiety, agitation or restlessness
Slowed thinking, speaking or body movements
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt, fixating on past failures or self-blame
Trouble thinking, concentrating, making decisions and remembering things
Frequent or recurrent thoughts of death, suicidal thoughts, suicide attempts or suicide
Unexplained physical problems, such as back pain or headaches
For many people with depression, symptoms usually are severe enough to cause noticeable problems in day-to-day activities, such as work, school, social activities or relationships with others. Some people may feel generally miserable or unhappy without really knowing why.
Causes for Depression (major depressive disorder) :
It's not known exactly what causes depression. As with many mental disorders, a variety of factors may be involved, such as:
Biological differences. People with depression appear to have physical changes in their brains. The significance of these changes is still uncertain, but may eventually help pinpoint causes.
Brain chemistry. Neurotransmitters are naturally occurring brain chemicals that likely play a role in depression. Recent research indicates that changes in the function and effect of these neurotransmitters and how they interact with neurocircuits involved in maintaining mood stability may play a significant role in depression and its treatment.
Hormones. Changes in the body's balance of hormones may be involved in causing or triggering depression. Hormone changes can result with pregnancy and during the weeks or months after delivery (postpartum) and from thyroid problems, menopause or a number of other conditions.
Inherited traits. Depression is more common in people whose blood relatives also have this condition. Researchers are trying to find genes that may be involved in causing depression.
Risk Factors for Depression (major depressive disorder):
Depression often begins in the teens, 20s or 30s, but it can happen at any age. More women than men are diagnosed with depression, but this may be due in part because women are more likely to seek treatment.
Factors that seem to increase the risk of developing or triggering depression include:
Certain personality traits, such as low self-esteem and being too dependent, self-critical or pessimistic
Traumatic or stressful events, such as physical or sexual abuse, the death or loss of a loved one, a difficult relationship, or financial problems
Blood relatives with a history of depression, bipolar disorder, alcoholism or suicide
Being lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender, or having variations in the development of genital organs that aren't clearly male or female (intersex) in an unsupportive situation
History of other mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorder, eating disorders or post-traumatic stress disorder
Abuse of alcohol or recreational drugs
Serious or chronic illness, including cancer, stroke, chronic pain or heart disease
Certain medications, such as some high blood pressure medications or sleeping pills (talk to your doctor before stopping any medication)
Complications for Depression (major depressive disorder):
Depression is a serious disorder that can take a terrible toll on you and your family. Depression often gets worse if it isn't treated, resulting in emotional, behavioral and health problems that affect every area of your life.
Examples of complications associated with depression include:
Excess weight or obesity, which can lead to heart disease and diabetes
Pain or physical illness
Alcohol or drug misuse
Anxiety, panic disorder or social phobia
Family conflicts, relationship difficulties, and work or school problems
Social isolation
Suicidal feelings, suicide attempts or suicide
Self-mutilation, such as cutting
Premature death from medical conditions
Preventions for Depression (major depressive disorder)
There's no sure way to prevent depression. However, these strategies may help.
Take steps to control stress, to increase your resilience and boost your self-esteem.
Reach out to family and friends, especially in times of crisis, to help you weather rough spells.
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent depression from worsening.
Consider getting long-term maintenance treatment to help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Condition name:Dermatitis
Overview of Dermatitis:
Dermatitis is a common condition that causes swelling and irritation of the skin. It has many causes and forms and often involves itchy, dry skin or a rash. Or it might cause the skin to blister, ooze, crust or flake. Three common types of this condition are atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis and seborrheic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema.
Dermatitis isn't contagious, but it can be very uncomfortable. Moisturizing regularly helps control the symptoms. Treatment also may include medicated ointments, creams and shampoos.
Home Remedies for Dermatitis:
These self-care habits can help you manage dermatitis and feel better:
Apply an anti-itch cream or ointment. Try 1% hydrocortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10, others). This is a product you can buy at a store without a prescription. Use it 1 to 2 times a day for a few days. Try cooling it in the refrigerator before applying.
Moisturize your skin. Apply a moisturizer once or twice a day, as a top layer over any medicated cream you're using. Ointments and creams tend to protect skin better than do lotions with high water content. Choose a product that has no dyes, alcohols, fragrances and other ingredients that might irritate the skin. Allow the moisturizer to absorb into the skin before getting dressed.
Apply a cool, wet cloth. Place a cool, wet cloth over the rash for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day. This may help soothe your skin.
Take a warm bath. Sprinkle your bathwater with finely ground oatmeal that's made for the bathtub. You might see this in the store labeled as colloidal oatmeal (Aveeno, others). Soak for less than 10 minutes, then pat dry. Apply moisturizer while the skin is still damp. A lotion with 12% ammonium lactate helps with flaky, dry skin.
Use medicated shampoos. For dandruff, first try nonprescription shampoos containing selenium sulfide, zinc pyrithione, coal tar or ketoconazole. If that doesn't help, talk with your doctor about a stronger shampoo, such as those available only with a prescription.
Take a bleach bath. This may help people with severe atopic dermatitis by decreasing the bacteria on the skin. For a dilute bleach bath, add 1/2 cup (118 milliliters) of household bleach, not concentrated bleach, to a 40-gallon (151-liter) bathtub filled with warm water. Measures are for a U.S. standard-sized tub filled to the overflow drainage holes. Soak from the neck down or just the affected areas for 5 to 10 minutes. Don't put the head under water. Rinse with tap water, then pat dry. Take a bleach bath 2 to 3 times a week.
Many people have had success using a dilute vinegar bath rather than a bleach bath. Add 1 cup (236 milliliters) of vinegar to a bathtub filled with warm water.
Talk with your doctor about whether either of these approaches is a good idea for you.
Protect your skin. Avoid rubbing and scratching. Cover the itchy area with a dressing if you can't keep from scratching it. Trim your nails and wear gloves at night. While your skin heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun protection measures.
Avoid known irritants or allergens. Avoid rough and scratchy clothing. And try to identify and remove allergens and other things in your environment that irritate your skin. Fragrances used in skin care products are one of the common allergens. Avoid using perfumes, colognes and scented soaps, deodorants and laundry detergents. Choose unscented options. Avoid using fabric softeners in the washer or dryer.
Manage your stress. Emotional stress can cause some types of dermatitis to flare. Being aware of stress and anxiety and taking steps to improve your emotional health may help your skin too.
Symptoms for Dermatitis :
Each type of dermatitis tends to occur on a different part of the body. Symptoms may include:
Itchiness that can be painful.
Dry, cracked, scaly skin, more typical on white skin.
Rash on swollen skin that varies in color depending on skin color.
Blisters, perhaps with oozing and crusting.
Dandruff.
Thickened skin.
Small, raised bumps, more typical on brown or Black skin.
Causes for Dermatitis :
A common cause of dermatitis is contact with something that irritates your skin or triggers an allergic reaction. Examples of such things are poison ivy, perfume, lotion and jewelry containing nickel. Other causes of dermatitis include dry skin, a viral infection, bacteria, stress, genetic makeup and a problem with the immune system.
Risk Factors for Dermatitis:
Common risk factors for dermatitis include:
Age. Dermatitis can occur at any age, but atopic dermatitis is more common in children than adults. It often begins in infancy.
Allergies, atopic dermatitis and asthma. People who have a personal or family history of atopic dermatitis, allergies, hay fever or asthma are more likely to develop atopic dermatitis.
Occupation. Jobs that put you in contact with certain metals, solvents or cleaning supplies increase your risk of contact dermatitis. Being a health care worker is linked to hand eczema.
Other health conditions. Health conditions that put you at increased risk of seborrheic dermatitis include Parkinson's disease, immunodeficiency and HIV/AIDS.
Complications for Dermatitis:
Repeated scratching that breaks the skin can cause open sores and cracks. These increase the risk of infection from bacteria and fungi. These skin infections can spread and become life-threatening, though this is rare.
In people with brown and Black skin, dermatitis might cause the affected skin to darken or lighten. These conditions are called post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation and post-inflammatory hypopigmentation. It might take months or years for the skin to return to its usual color.
Preventions for Dermatitis
Wear protective clothing if you're doing a task that involves irritants or caustic chemicals.
Developing a basic skin care routine also may help prevent dermatitis. The following habits can help reduce the drying effects of bathing:
Take shorter baths and showers. Limit your bath or shower to about 10 minutes. Use lukewarm, not hot, water. Bath oil also may be helpful.
Use a mild soap or a soapless cleanser. Choose a cleanser that has no dyes, alcohols and fragrance. Some soaps can dry the skin. For young children, you usually need only warm water to get them clean — no soap or bubble bath needed. Don't scrub the skin with a washcloth or loofah.
Pat dry. After bathing, gently pat the skin with a soft towel. Avoid aggressive rubbing.
Moisturize all the skin. While the skin is still damp, seal in moisture with an oil, cream or lotion. Moisturize throughout the day as needed.
Many moisturizers are sold. Try different products to find one that works for you. The ideal moisturizer is safe, unscented, effective, affordable and one that you like to use regularly. Examples include Vanicream, Eucerin, CeraVe and Cetaphil.
Condition name:Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans
Overview of Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dermatographia (Dermatographism)
Overview of Dermatographia (Dermatographism):
Dermatographia is a condition in which lightly scratching your skin causes raised, inflamed lines or welts. These marks tend to go away in less than 30 minutes. The condition is also known as dermatographism and skin writing.
The cause of dermatographia is unknown, but it may be related to an infection, emotional upset or a medicine you're taking.
Dermatographia is harmless. Most people who have this condition don't need treatment. If your symptoms bother you, talk with your health care provider, who might prescribe an allergy medicine.
There are no home remedies available for Dermatographia (Dermatographism) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dermatographia (Dermatographism) :
Symptoms of dermatographia may include:
Raised, inflamed lines where you scratched.
Welts from friction.
Swelling.
Itching.
The symptoms may occur within a few minutes of the skin being rubbed or scratched. They tend to go away within 30 minutes. Rarely, the skin symptoms develop more slowly and lasts several hours to days. The condition itself can last for months or years.
Causes for Dermatographia (Dermatographism) :
The exact cause of dermatographia isn't clear. It may be an allergic reaction, though no specific allergen has been found.
Simple things may cause symptoms of dermatographia. For example, rubbing from your clothes or bedsheets may irritate your skin. In some people, the symptoms are preceded by an infection, emotional stress, vibration, cold exposure or taking a medicine.
Risk Factors for Dermatographia (Dermatographism):
Dermatographia can occur at any age. It tends to be more common in teens and young adults. If you have other skin conditions, you may be at greater risk. One such condition is atopic dermatitis (eczema).
There are no Complications available for Dermatographia (Dermatographism) in the knowledge basePreventions for Dermatographia (Dermatographism)
Try these tips to reduce discomfort and prevent the symptoms of dermatographia:
Treat skin gently. Use a mild soap or nonsoap cleanser and pat skin dry. Wear things made of cloth that doesn't itch. Use warm water when you take a bath or shower.
Don't scratch your skin. Try not to scratch. This is a good tip for any skin condition.
Keep your skin moisturized. Use creams, lotions or ointments daily. Creams and ointments are thicker and tend to work better than lotions do. Apply your skin product while your skin is still damp from washing. Use it again during the day as needed.
Condition name:Desmoid tumors
Overview of Desmoid tumors:
Desmoid tumors are noncancerous growths that occur in the connective tissue. Desmoid tumors most often occur in the abdomen, arms and legs.
Another term for desmoid tumors is aggressive fibromatosis.
Some desmoid tumors are slow growing and don't require immediate treatment. Others grow quickly and are treated with surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy or other drugs.
Desmoid tumors aren't considered cancers because they don't spread to other areas of the body. But they can be very aggressive, acting more like cancers and growing into nearby structures and organs. For this reason, people with desmoid tumors are often cared for by cancer doctors.
There are no home remedies available for Desmoid tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Desmoid tumors :
Desmoid tumor symptoms differ based on where the tumors occur. Desmoid tumors most often happen in the abdomen, arms and legs. But they can form anywhere in the body.
In general, signs and symptoms include:
A mass or area of swelling
Pain
Loss of function in the affected area
Cramping and nausea, when desmoid tumors occur in the abdomen
Causes for Desmoid tumors :
It's not clear what causes desmoid tumors.
Doctors know these tumors form when a connective tissue cell develops changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the connective tissue cell to multiply rapidly, creating a mass of cells (tumor) that can invade and destroy healthy body tissue.
There are no Risk Factors available for Desmoid tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Desmoid tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Desmoid tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Desmoplastic small round cell tumors
Overview of Desmoplastic small round cell tumors:
Desmoplastic (des-moe-PLAS-tik) small round cell tumors (DSRCT) are a type of cancer that often begins in the abdomen. Sometimes this type of cancer can occur in other parts of the body.
Desmoplastic small round cell tumors are rare cancers that begin as a growth of cells. The growths often form on the tissue that lines the inside of the abdomen and pelvis. This tissue lining is called the peritoneum. The cancer cells can quickly spread to other nearby organs. This might include the bladder, colon and liver.
Desmoplastic small round cell tumors can happen to anyone, but they're more common in young men and boys.
Treatment for desmoplastic small round cell tumors typically involves a combination of treatments. Options might include surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Desmoplastic small round cell tumors are a type of soft tissue sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcoma is a term used to describe a large group of cancers that all start in the tissues that connect, support and surround other body structures.
There are no home remedies available for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors :
Desmoplastic small round cell tumor symptoms vary depending on where the cancer begins. Most often it begins in the abdomen.
Signs and symptoms of desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the abdomen include:
Swelling of the abdomen
Abdominal pain
Constipation
Difficulty urinating
There are no Causes available for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Desmoplastic small round cell tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Diabetes
Overview of Diabetes:
Diabetes mellitus refers to a group of diseases that affect how the body uses blood sugar (glucose). Glucose is an important source of energy for the cells that make up the muscles and tissues. It's also the brain's main source of fuel.
The main cause of diabetes varies by type. But no matter what type of diabetes you have, it can lead to excess sugar in the blood. Too much sugar in the blood can lead to serious health problems.
Chronic diabetes conditions include type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Potentially reversible diabetes conditions include prediabetes and gestational diabetes. Prediabetes happens when blood sugar levels are higher than normal. But the blood sugar levels aren't high enough to be called diabetes. And prediabetes can lead to diabetes unless steps are taken to prevent it. Gestational diabetes happens during pregnancy. But it may go away after the baby is born.
Home Remedies for Diabetes:
Diabetes is a serious disease. Following your diabetes treatment plan takes total commitment. Careful management of diabetes can lower your risk of serious or life-threatening complications.
Commit to managing your diabetes. Learn all you can about diabetes. Build a relationship with a diabetes educator. Ask your diabetes treatment team for help when you need it.
Choose healthy foods and stay at a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing just 7% of your body weight can make a difference in your blood sugar control if you have prediabetes or type 2 diabetes. A healthy diet is one with plenty of fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, whole grains and legumes. And limit how much food with saturated fat you eat.
Make physical activity part of your daily routine. Regular physical activity can help prevent prediabetes and type 2 diabetes. It can also help those who already have diabetes to maintain better blood sugar control. A minimum of 30 minutes of moderate physical activity â€” such as brisk walking â€” most days of the week is recommended. Aim for at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic physical activity a week.
Getting regular aerobic exercise along with getting at least two days a week of strength training exercises can help control blood sugar more effectively than does either type of exercise alone. Aerobic exercises can include walking, biking or dancing. Resistance training can include weight training and body weight exercises.
Also try to spend less time sitting still. Try to get up and move around for a few minutes at least every 30 minutes or so when you're awake.
Lifestyle recommendations for type 1 and type 2 diabetes
Also, if you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes:
Identify yourself. Wear a tag or bracelet that says you have diabetes. Keep a glucagon kit nearby in case of a low blood sugar emergency. Make sure your friends and loved ones know how to use it.
Schedule a yearly physical and regular eye exams. Your regular diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace yearly physicals or routine eye exams. During the physical, your provider will look for any diabetes-related complications and screen for other medical problems. Your eye care specialist will check for signs of eye damage, including retinal damage (retinopathy), cataracts and glaucoma.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken your immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your provider may recommend the pneumonia and COVID-19 vaccines, as well.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also currently recommends hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't previously had it and you're an adult ages 19 to 59 with type 1 or type 2 diabetes.
The most recent CDC guidelines suggest vaccination as soon as possible after diagnosis with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. If you are age 60 or older, have been diagnosed with diabetes, and haven't previously received the vaccine, talk to your provider about whether it's right for you.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes. Moisturize with lotion, but not between the toes. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness or swelling. Talk to your provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that doesn't heal quickly on its own.
Control your blood pressure and cholesterol. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can help control high blood pressure and cholesterol. Drugs may be needed, too.
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush and floss your teeth at least twice a day. And if you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes, schedule regular dental exams. Talk to your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of many diabetes complications. Smokers who have diabetes are more likely to die of cardiovascular disease than are nonsmokers who have diabetes. Talk to your provider about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol can cause either high or low blood sugar. This depends on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so only in moderation â€” one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men â€” and always with food.
Remember to include the carbohydrates from any alcohol you drink in your daily carbohydrate count. And check your blood sugar levels before going to bed.
Take stress seriously. The hormones your body may make in response to long-term stress may prevent insulin from working properly. This will raise your blood sugar and stress you even more. Set limits for yourself and prioritize your tasks. Learn relaxation techniques. And get plenty of sleep.
Symptoms for Diabetes :
Diabetes symptoms depend on how high your blood sugar is. Some people, especially if they have prediabetes, gestational diabetes or type 2 diabetes, may not have symptoms. In type 1 diabetes, symptoms tend to come on quickly and be more severe.
Some of the symptoms of type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes are:
Feeling more thirsty than usual.
Urinating often.
Losing weight without trying.
Presence of ketones in the urine. Ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin.
Feeling tired and weak.
Feeling irritable or having other mood changes.
Having blurry vision.
Having slow-healing sores.
Getting a lot of infections, such as gum, skin and vaginal infections.
Type 1 diabetes can start at any age. But it often starts during childhood or teen years. Type 2 diabetes, the more common type, can develop at any age. Type 2 diabetes is more common in people older than 40. But type 2 diabetes in children is increasing.
Causes for Diabetes :
To understand diabetes, it's important to understand how the body normally uses glucose.
Risk Factors for Diabetes:
Risk factors for diabetes depend on the type of diabetes. Family history may play a part in all types. Environmental factors and geography can add to the risk of type 1 diabetes.
Sometimes family members of people with type 1 diabetes are tested for the presence of diabetes immune system cells (autoantibodies). If you have these autoantibodies, you have an increased risk of developing type 1 diabetes. But not everyone who has these autoantibodies develops diabetes.
Race or ethnicity also may raise your risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Although it's unclear why, certain people — including Black, Hispanic, American Indian and Asian American people — are at higher risk.
Prediabetes, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes are more common in people who are overweight or obese.
Complications for Diabetes:
Long-term complications of diabetes develop gradually. The longer you have diabetes — and the less controlled your blood sugar — the higher the risk of complications. Eventually, diabetes complications may be disabling or even life-threatening. In fact, prediabetes can lead to type 2 diabetes. Possible complications include:
Heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease. Diabetes majorly increases the risk of many heart problems. These can include coronary artery disease with chest pain (angina), heart attack, stroke and narrowing of arteries (atherosclerosis). If you have diabetes, you're more likely to have heart disease or stroke.
Nerve damage from diabetes (diabetic neuropathy). Too much sugar can injure the walls of the tiny blood vessels (capillaries) that nourish the nerves, especially in the legs. This can cause tingling, numbness, burning or pain that usually begins at the tips of the toes or fingers and gradually spreads upward.
Damage to the nerves related to digestion can cause problems with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation. For men, it may lead to erectile dysfunction.
Kidney damage from diabetes (diabetic nephropathy). The kidneys hold millions of tiny blood vessel clusters (glomeruli) that filter waste from the blood. Diabetes can damage this delicate filtering system.
Eye damage from diabetes (diabetic retinopathy). Diabetes can damage the blood vessels of the eye. This could lead to blindness.
Foot damage. Nerve damage in the feet or poor blood flow to the feet increases the risk of many foot complications.
Skin and mouth conditions. Diabetes may leave you more prone to skin problems, including bacterial and fungal infections.
Hearing impairment. Hearing problems are more common in people with diabetes.
Alzheimer's disease. Type 2 diabetes may increase the risk of dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease.
Depression related to diabetes. Depression symptoms are common in people with type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Preventions for Diabetes
Type 1 diabetes can't be prevented. But the healthy lifestyle choices that help treat prediabetes, type 2 diabetes and gestational diabetes can also help prevent them:
Eat healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Eat a variety to keep from feeling bored.
Get more physical activity. Try to get about 30 minutes of moderate aerobic activity on most days of the week. Or aim to get at least 150 minutes of moderate aerobic activity a week. For example, take a brisk daily walk. If you can't fit in a long workout, break it up into smaller sessions throughout the day.
Lose excess pounds. If you're overweight, losing even 7% of your body weight can lower the risk of diabetes. For example, if you weigh 200 pounds (90.7 kilograms), losing 14 pounds (6.4 kilograms) can lower the risk of diabetes.
But don't try to lose weight during pregnancy. Talk to your provider about how much weight is healthy for you to gain during pregnancy.
To keep your weight in a healthy range, work on long-term changes to your eating and exercise habits. Remember the benefits of losing weight, such as a healthier heart, more energy and higher self-esteem.
Sometimes drugs are an option. Oral diabetes drugs such as metformin (Glumetza, Fortamet, others) may lower the risk of type 2 diabetes. But healthy lifestyle choices are important. If you have prediabetes, have your blood sugar checked at least once a year to make sure you haven't developed type 2 diabetes.
Condition name:Diabetes insipidus
Overview of Diabetes insipidus:
Diabetes insipidus (die-uh-BEE-teze in-SIP-uh-dus) is an uncommon problem that causes the fluids in the body to become out of balance. That prompts the body to make large amounts of urine. It also causes a feeling of being very thirsty even after having something to drink. Diabetes insipidus also is called arginine vasopressin deficiency and arginine vasopressin resistance.
While the terms "diabetes insipidus" and "diabetes mellitus" sound alike, the two conditions are not connected. Diabetes mellitus involves high blood sugar levels. It's a common condition, and it's often called simply diabetes.
There's no cure for diabetes insipidus. But treatment is available that can ease its symptoms. That includes relieving thirst, lowering the amount of urine the body makes and preventing dehydration.
Home Remedies for Diabetes insipidus:
If you have diabetes insipidus:
Prevent dehydration. As long as you take your medicine and have easy access to water, you'll likely be able to prevent serious problems from dehydration. Plan ahead by carrying water with you wherever you go. Keep a supply of medicine with you when you're away from home.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or carry a medical alert card. If you have a medical emergency, the alert provides information that your health care providers need to give you the right care.
Symptoms for Diabetes insipidus :
Symptoms of diabetes insipidus in adults include:
Being very thirsty, often with a preference for cold water.
Making large amounts of pale urine.
Getting up to urinate and drink water often during the night.
Adults typically urinate an average of 1 to 3 quarts (about 1 to 3 liters) a day. People who have diabetes insipidus and who drink a lot of fluids may make as much as 20 quarts (about 19 liters) of urine a day.
A baby or young child who has diabetes insipidus may have these symptoms:
Large amounts of pale urine that result in heavy, wet diapers.
Bed-wetting.
Being very thirsty, with a preference for drinking water and cold liquids.
Weight loss.
Poor growth.
Vomiting.
Irritability.
Fever.
Constipation.
Headache.
Problems sleeping.
Vision problems.
Causes for Diabetes insipidus :
Diabetes insipidus happens when the body can't balance its fluid levels in a healthy way.
Fluid in the blood is filtered through the kidneys to remove waste. Afterward, most of that fluid is returned to the bloodstream. The waste and a small amount of fluid leave the kidneys as urine. Urine leaves the body after it's temporarily stored in the bladder.
A hormone known as antidiuretic hormone (ADH) — also called vasopressin — is needed to get the fluid that's filtered by the kidneys back into the bloodstream. ADH is made in a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. It's then stored in the pituitary gland, a small gland found at the base of the brain. Conditions that cause the brain to make too little ADH or disorders that block the effect of ADH cause the body to make too much urine.
In diabetes insipidus, the body can't properly balance fluid levels. The cause of the fluid imbalance depends on the type of diabetes insipidus.
Central diabetes insipidus. Damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus from surgery, a tumor, a head injury or an illness can cause central diabetes insipidus. That damage affects the production, storage and release of ADH. An inherited disorder may cause this condition too. It also can be the result of an autoimmune reaction that causes the body's immune system to damage the cells that make ADH.
Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. This happens when there's a problem with the kidneys that makes them unable to properly respond to ADH. That problem may be due to:
An inherited disorder.
Certain medicines, including lithium and antiviral medicines such as foscarnet (Foscavir).
Low levels of potassium in the blood.
High levels of calcium in the blood.
A blocked urinary tract or a urinary tract infection.
A chronic kidney condition.
Gestational diabetes insipidus. This rare form of diabetes insipidus only happens during pregnancy. It develops when an enzyme made by the placenta destroys ADH in a pregnant person.
Primary polydipsia. This condition also is called dipsogenic diabetes insipidus. People who have this disorder constantly feel thirsty and drink lots of fluids. It can be caused by damage to the thirst-regulating mechanism in the hypothalamus. It also has been linked to mental illness, such as schizophrenia.
Sometimes no clear cause of diabetes insipidus can be found. In that case, repeat testing over time often is useful. Testing may be able to identify an underlying cause eventually.
Risk Factors for Diabetes insipidus:
Anyone can get diabetes insipidus. But those at higher risk include people who:
Have a family history of the disorder.
Take certain medicines, such as diuretics, that could lead to kidney problems.
Have high levels of calcium or low levels of potassium in their blood.
Have had a serious head injury or brain surgery.
There are no Complications available for Diabetes insipidus in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Diabetes insipidus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease)
Overview of Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease):
Diabetic nephropathy is a serious complication of type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. It's also called diabetic kidney disease. In the United States, about 1 in 3 people living with diabetes have diabetic nephropathy.
Diabetic nephropathy affects the kidneys' usual work of removing waste products and extra fluid from the body. The best way to prevent or delay diabetic nephropathy is by living a healthy lifestyle and keeping diabetes and high blood pressure managed.
Over years, diabetic nephropathy slowly damages the kidneys' filtering system. Early treatment may prevent this condition or slow it and lower the chance of complications.
Diabetic kidney disease can lead to kidney failure. This also is called end-stage kidney disease. Kidney failure is a life-threatening condition. Treatment options for kidney failure are dialysis or a kidney transplant.
There are no home remedies available for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease) :
In the early stages of diabetic nephropathy, there might not be symptoms. In later stages, symptoms may include:
High blood pressure that gets harder to control.
Swelling of feet, ankles, hands or eyes.
Foamy urine.
Confusion or difficulty thinking.
Shortness of breath.
Loss of appetite.
Nausea and vomiting.
Itching.
Tiredness and weakness.
Causes for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease) :
Diabetic nephropathy happens when diabetes damages blood vessels and other cells in the kidneys.
Risk Factors for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease):
If you have diabetes, the following can raise your risk of diabetic nephropathy:
Uncontrolled high blood sugar, also called hyperglycemia.
Uncontrolled high blood pressure, also called hypertension.
Smoking.
High blood cholesterol.
Obesity.
A family history of diabetes and kidney disease.
Complications for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease):
Complications of diabetic nephropathy can come on slowly over months or years. They may include:
Body fluid buildup. This could lead to swelling in the arms and legs, high blood pressure, or fluid in the lungs, called pulmonary edema.
A rise in the levels of the mineral potassium in the blood, called hyperkalemia.
Heart and blood vessel disease, also called cardiovascular disease. This could lead to a stroke.
Fewer red blood cells to carry oxygen. This condition also is called anemia.
Pregnancy complications that carry risks for the pregnant person and the growing fetus.
Damage to the kidneys that can't be fixed. This is called end-stage kidney disease. Treatment is either dialysis or a kidney transplant.
Preventions for Diabetic nephropathy (kidney disease)
To lower your risk of developing diabetic nephropathy:
See your health care team regularly to manage diabetes. Keep appointments to check on how well you are managing your diabetes and to check for diabetic nephropathy and other complications. Your appointments might be yearly or more often.
Treat your diabetes. With good treatment of diabetes, you can keep your blood sugar levels in the target range as much as possible. This may prevent or slow diabetic nephropathy.
Manage high blood pressure or other medical conditions. If you have high blood pressure or other conditions that raise your risk of kidney disease, work with your health care professional to control them.
Take medicines you get without a prescription only as directed. Read the labels on the pain relievers you take. This might include aspirin and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, such as naproxen sodium (Aleve) and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others). For people with diabetic nephropathy, these types of pain relievers can lead to kidney damage.
Stay at a healthy weight. If you're at a healthy weight, work to stay that way by being physically active most days of the week. If you need to lose weight, talk with a member of your health care team about the best way for you to lose weight.
Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking can damage kidneys or make kidney damage worse. If you're a smoker, talk to a member of your health care team about ways to quit. Support groups, counseling and some medicines might help.
Condition name:Diarrhea
Overview of Diarrhea:
Diarrhea — loose, watery and possibly more-frequent passage of stool — is a common problem. Sometimes, it's the only symptom of a condition. At other times, it may be associated with other symptoms, such as nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain or weight loss.
Luckily, diarrhea is usually short-lived, lasting no more than a few days. But when diarrhea lasts beyond a few days, it is usually a clue to another problem — such as medicine side effects, changes in diet, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), or a more serious disorder, including ongoing infection, celiac disease or inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Home Remedies for Diarrhea:
Diarrhea usually clears up quickly without treatment. To help you cope with your symptoms until the diarrhea goes away, try to do the following:
Drink plenty of liquids, including water, broths and juices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Add semisolid and low-fiber foods gradually as your stool returns to what's typical for you. Try soda crackers, toast, eggs, rice or chicken.
Don't eat certain foods such as dairy products, fatty foods, high-fiber foods or highly seasoned foods for a few days.
Ask about antidiarrheal medicines. Nonprescription antidiarrheal medicines, such as loperamide and bismuth subsalicylate, might help reduce how often you pass watery stool and control severe symptoms.
Certain medical conditions and infections â€” bacterial and parasitic â€” can be worsened by these medicines because they prevent your body from getting rid of what's causing the diarrhea. Some of these medicines are not recommended for children. Check with your healthcare professional before taking these medicines or giving them to a child.
Take probiotics. These microorganisms may help restore a healthy balance to the intestinal tract by boosting the level of good bacteria. However, it's not clear if they can help shorten a bout of diarrhea. Probiotics are available in capsule or liquid form and are also added to some foods, such as certain brands of yogurt. Further research is needed to better understand which strains of bacteria are most helpful and what doses are needed.
Symptoms for Diarrhea :
Symptoms associated with loose, watery stools, also called diarrhea, may include:
Belly cramps or pain.
Bloating.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fever.
Blood in the stool.
Mucus in the stool.
Urgent need to pass stool.
Causes for Diarrhea :
A number of diseases and conditions can cause diarrhea, including:
Viruses. Viruses that can cause diarrhea include Norwalk virus, also known as norovirus, enteric adenoviruses, astrovirus, cytomegalovirus and viruses that cause hepatitis. Rotavirus is a common cause of sudden childhood diarrhea. The virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) also has been linked to gastrointestinal symptoms, including nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
Bacteria and parasites. Exposure to certain bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, or parasites through contaminated food or water can lead to diarrhea. When traveling in developing countries, diarrhea caused by bacteria or parasites is often called traveler's diarrhea. Clostridioides difficile, also known as C. diff, is another bacterium that causes diarrhea, and it can occur after a course of antibiotics or during a hospital stay.
Medicines. Many medicines, such as antibiotics, can cause diarrhea. Antibiotics get rid of infections by killing bacteria that cause illness, but they also kill good bacteria that are helpful in the body. This disturbs the natural balance of bacteria in the intestines, leading to diarrhea or an infection such as C. diff. Other medicines that cause diarrhea are anticancer drugs and antacids with magnesium.
Lactose intolerance. Lactose is a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. People who have trouble digesting lactose often have diarrhea after eating dairy products. Lactose intolerance can increase with age because levels of the enzyme that helps digest lactose become lower as people get older.
Fructose. Fructose is a sugar found naturally in fruits and honey. It's sometimes added as a sweetener to certain beverages. Fructose can lead to diarrhea in people who have trouble digesting it.
Artificial sweeteners. Sorbitol, erythritol and mannitol — nonabsorbable sugars used as artificial sweeteners in chewing gum and other sugar-free products — can cause diarrhea in some otherwise healthy people.
Surgery. Partial intestine or gallbladder removal surgeries can sometimes cause diarrhea.
Other digestive disorders. Chronic diarrhea has a number of other causes, such as IBS, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, celiac disease, microscopic colitis and small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO).
Risk Factors for Diarrhea:
Some common risk factors for diarrhea include:
Exposure to viruses, bacteria or parasites. This is a major risk factor for sudden onset of diarrhea.
Diet. Certain foods or drinks, including coffee, tea, dairy products, or foods containing artificial sweeteners can cause diarrhea in some people.
Medicines. Some medicines, such as antibiotics, laxatives, magnesium supplements, antidepressants, NSAIDs, chemotherapy and immunotherapy, can cause diarrhea.
Complications for Diarrhea:
Diarrhea can cause dehydration, which can be life-threatening if not treated. Dehydration is particularly dangerous in children, older adults and those with weakened immune systems.
If you have symptoms of serious dehydration, seek medical help.
There are no preventive measures available for Diarrhea in the knowledge baseCondition name:DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome)
Overview of DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome):
DiGeorge syndrome, also known as 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, is a condition caused when a small part of chromosome 22 is missing. This deletion causes several body systems to develop poorly.
The term 22q11.2 deletion syndrome covers terms once thought to be different conditions. These terms include DiGeorge syndrome, velocardiofacial (vel-oh-cahr-dee-oh-fay-shell) syndrome and other conditions caused by the same missing part of chromosome 22. But features may vary slightly.
Medical problems commonly related to 22q11.2 deletion syndrome include heart problems, lowered immunity, a cleft palate, complications from low levels of calcium, various eye issues and autoimmune disorders. Complications also include hearing loss, skeletal differences, kidney and genital differences, and delayed development with behavioral and emotional problems.
The number and severity of symptoms related to 22q11.2 deletion syndrome vary. But specialists in various fields need to treat almost everyone with this syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome) :
Symptoms of DiGeorge syndrome can vary based on what body systems are affected and the severity of the problems. Some symptoms may be clear at birth, but others may not appear until later in infancy or as a young child, or as an adult.
Symptoms of DiGeorge syndrome may include:
Heart issues, such as problems with the structure of the heart and vessels, or a heart murmur and bluish skin because of poor circulation of blood, also known as cyanosis.
Frequent infections.
Distinctive facial features, such as an underdeveloped chin, ears that look different, wide-set eyes, hooded eyes and an enlarged nose tip. Asymmetric crying facies also may be present. This is when muscles on one side of the mouth don't develop fully, causing that side of the mouth to droop when crying, though the face looks balanced at rest.
A gap in the roof of the mouth, also known as a cleft palate, or other problems with the palate.
A hard time feeding, failure to gain weight or stomach problems.
Hearing loss.
Poor muscle tone.
Kidney problems.
Poor vision and other eye problems.
Low levels of calcium in the blood.
Scoliosis.
Other symptoms may include:
Delayed growth.
Delayed development, such as delays in rolling over, sitting up or other infant milestones.
Delayed speech development or nasal-sounding speech.
Learning delays or disabilities.
Behavioral problems.
Other conditions may cause symptoms like 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. It's important to get the right diagnosis quickly if your child shows any symptoms listed above.
Healthcare professionals may suspect 22q11.2 deletion syndrome:
At birth. If a severe heart problem, cleft palate or other signs typical of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are clear at birth, tests likely will be done before your child leaves the hospital.
At well-baby visits. Illnesses or conditions that are typical of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome may become clear over time. Your child's healthcare professional may see issues during regularly scheduled well-baby visits or annual checkups.
Causes for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome) :
Each person has two copies of chromosome 22 — one inherited from each parent. If a person has DiGeorge syndrome, one copy of chromosome 22 is missing a segment that includes an estimated 30 to 40 genes. Many of these genes haven't been clearly identified and aren't well understood. The region of chromosome 22 that's deleted is known as 22q11.2.
The deletion of genes from chromosome 22 usually occurs as a random event in the father's sperm or in the mother's egg. Or it may occur early when the baby is developing. Rarely, the deletion is passed to a child from a parent who also has a deletion in chromosome 22 but may have fewer or mild symptoms.
Risk Factors for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome):
Babies who are missing a portion of chromosome 22, specifically a region known as 22q11.2, are most at risk of DiGeorge syndrome. This missing portion causes several body systems to develop poorly.
Complications for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome):
The portions of chromosome 22 missing in DiGeorge syndrome affect the development of several body systems. As a result, the condition can cause several errors during fetal development.
Heart issues. 22q11.2 deletion syndrome often causes heart problems that could lead to too little oxygen-rich blood. For example, problems may include a hole between the lower chambers of the heart, also known as a ventricular septal defect. Or there may be only one large vessel rather than two vessels leading out of the heart, also known as truncus arteriosus. Or there may be four problems with heart structure, also known as tetralogy of Fallot.
Hypoparathyroidism. The four parathyroid glands in the neck regulate the levels of calcium and phosphorus in the body. 22q11.2 deletion syndrome can cause parathyroid glands to be smaller than usual and produce too little parathyroid hormone. This leads to hypoparathyroidism. This condition results in low levels of calcium and high levels of phosphorus in the blood.
Thymus gland dysfunction. The thymus gland, which is beneath the breastbone, is where T cells — a type of white blood cell — mature. Mature T cells help fight infections. In children with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, the thymus gland may be small or missing. This leads to poor immune function and frequent, severe infections.
Cleft palate. A common condition of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome is a cleft palate, which is an opening in the roof of the mouth, with or without a cleft lip. Other, less visible problems with the structure of the palate can make it hard to swallow or make certain sounds in speech.
Distinct facial features. A number of particular facial features may be present in some people with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome. These may include small, low-set ears, short width of eye openings (palpebral fissures), hooded eyes, a relatively long face, an enlarged nose tip (bulbous), or a short or flattened groove in the upper lip.
Learning, behavioral and mental health problems. 22q11.2 deletion syndrome may cause problems with development and function of the brain, resulting in learning, social, developmental or behavioral problems. Delays in toddler speech development and finding it hard to learn are common. Some children develop attention-deficit/hyperactivity condition (ADHD) or autism spectrum disorder. Later in life, the risk of depression, anxiety and other mental health conditions is higher.
Autoimmune conditions. People with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome also may have a greater risk of getting autoimmune conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis or Graves' disease.
Other problems. Many medical conditions may be related to 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, such as hearing problems, eye problems and poor kidney function.
Preventions for DiGeorge syndrome (22q11.2 deletion syndrome)
In some cases, an affected parent may pass DiGeorge syndrome to a child. If you're worried about a family history of 22q11.2 deletion syndrome or if you already have a child with the syndrome, you may want to see a doctor who specializes in genetic conditions. This doctor is called a geneticist. Or you may want to see a genetic counselor to help plan future pregnancies.
Condition name:Dislocated shoulder
Overview of Dislocated shoulder:
A dislocated shoulder is an injury in which the upper arm bone pops out of the cup-shaped socket that's part of the shoulder blade. The shoulder is the body's most flexible joint, which makes it more likely to dislocate.
If you suspect a dislocated shoulder, seek prompt medical attention. Most people regain full use of their shoulder within a few weeks. However, once a shoulder dislocates, the joint might be prone to repeat dislocations.
Home Remedies for Dislocated shoulder:
Try these steps to help ease discomfort and encourage healing after being treated for a dislocated shoulder:
Rest the shoulder. Don't repeat the specific action that caused the shoulder to dislocate. Try to avoid painful movements. Limit heavy lifting or overhead activity until the shoulder feels better.
Apply ice then heat. Putting ice on the shoulder helps reduce inflammation and pain. Use a cold pack, a bag of frozen vegetables or a towel filled with ice cubes for 15 to 20 minutes at a time. Do this every couple of hours the first day or two.
Take pain relievers. Medications such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve) or acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) might help relieve pain. Follow label directions and stop taking the drugs when the pain improves.
Maintain the range of motion of the shoulder. After one or two days, your health care provider might have you do some gentle exercises to help maintain the shoulder's range of motion. Being inactive can cause joints to stiffen.
Once the injury heals and the shoulder has good range of motion, keep exercising. Daily shoulder stretches and a shoulder-strengthening and stability program might help prevent another dislocation. Your health care provider can help plan an appropriate exercise routine.
Symptoms for Dislocated shoulder :
Dislocated shoulder symptoms can include:
A visibly deformed or out-of-place shoulder
Swelling or bruising
Intense pain
Inability to move the joint
Shoulder dislocation can also cause numbness, weakness or tingling near the injury, such as in the neck or down the arm. The muscles in the shoulder might spasm, which can increase the pain.
Causes for Dislocated shoulder :
The shoulder joint is the most frequently dislocated joint of the body. Because it moves in several directions, the shoulder can dislocate forward, backward or downward. It might dislocate completely or partially.
Most dislocations occur through the front of the shoulder. The ligaments — tissue that joins the bones — of the shoulder can be stretched or torn, often making the dislocation worse.
It takes a strong force, such as a sudden blow to the shoulder, to pull the bones out of place. Extreme twisting of the shoulder joint can pop the ball of the upper arm bone out of the shoulder socket. In a partial dislocation, the upper arm bone is partially in and partially out of the shoulder socket.
Causes of a dislocated shoulder include:
Sports injuries. Shoulder dislocation is a common injury in contact sports, such as football and hockey. It's also common in sports that might involve falls, such as downhill skiing, gymnastics and volleyball.
Trauma not related to sports. A hard blow to the shoulder during a motor vehicle accident can cause dislocation.
Falls. Landing awkwardly after a fall, such as from a ladder or from tripping on a loose rug, can dislocate a shoulder.
Risk Factors for Dislocated shoulder:
Anyone can dislocate a shoulder. However, dislocated shoulders occur most often in people in their teens and 20s, particularly athletes involved in contact sports.
Complications for Dislocated shoulder:
Complications of a dislocated shoulder might include:
Tearing of the muscles, ligaments and tendons that reinforce the shoulder joint
Nerve or blood vessel damage in or around the shoulder joint
Becoming more prone to repeat dislocations, especially if the injury is severe
Stretched or torn ligaments or tendons in the shoulder or damaged nerves or blood vessels around the shoulder might require surgery for repair.
Preventions for Dislocated shoulder
To help prevent a dislocated shoulder:
Take care to avoid falls and other shoulder injuries
Wear protective gear when playing contact sports
Exercise regularly to maintain strength and flexibility in joints and muscles
Having a dislocated shoulder joint can increase the risk of future shoulder dislocations. To help avoid a recurrence, keep doing the strength and stability exercises prescribed for the injury.
Condition name:Dissociative disorders
Overview of Dissociative disorders:
Dissociative disorders are mental health conditions that involve experiencing a loss of connection between thoughts, memories, feelings, surroundings, behavior and identity. These conditions include escape from reality in ways that are not wanted and not healthy. This causes problems in managing everyday life.
Dissociative disorders usually arise as a reaction to shocking, distressing or painful events and help push away difficult memories. Symptoms depend in part on the type of dissociative disorder and can range from memory loss to disconnected identities. Times of stress can worsen symptoms for a while, making them easier to see.
Treatment for dissociative disorders may include talk therapy, also called psychotherapy, and medicine. Treating dissociative disorders can be difficult, but many people learn new ways of coping and their lives get better.
There are no home remedies available for Dissociative disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dissociative disorders :
Symptoms depend on the type of dissociative disorder, but may include:

A sense of being separated from yourself and your emotions.
Thinking that people and things around you are distorted and not real.
A blurred sense of your own identity.
Severe stress or problems in relationships, work or other important areas of life.
Not being able to cope well with emotional or work-related stress.
Memory loss, also called amnesia, of certain time periods, events, people and personal information.
Mental health problems, such as depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts and behaviors.
The American Psychiatric Association defines three major dissociative disorders: Depersonalization/derealization disorder, dissociative amnesia, and dissociative identity disorder.
Causes for Dissociative disorders :
Dissociative disorders usually start as a way to cope with shocking, distressing or painful events. The disorders most often form in children who go through long-term physical, sexual or emotional abuse. Less often, the disorders form in children who've lived in a home where they went through frightening times or they never knew what to expect. The stress of war or natural disasters also can bring on dissociative disorders.
When you go through an event that's too much to handle emotionally, you may feel like you're stepping outside of yourself and seeing the event as if it's happening to another person. Mentally escaping in this way may help you get through a shocking, distressing or painful time.
Risk Factors for Dissociative disorders:
You're at greatest risk of having a dissociative disorder if you've had long-term physical, sexual or emotional abuse during childhood.
Other shocking, distressing or painful events also may cause dissociative disorders to arise. These may include war, natural disasters, kidnapping, torture, extensive early-life medical procedures or other events.
Complications for Dissociative disorders:
Having a dissociative disorder increases the risk of complications and having other mental health conditions. These may include:
Depression and anxiety.
Post-traumatic stress disorder.
Sleep disorders, including nightmares, insomnia and sleepwalking.
Physical symptoms such as lightheadedness or seizures that are not due to epilepsy.
Eating disorders.
Problems with sexual function.
Problems with alcohol and drug use.
Personality disorders.
Major problems in personal relationships, at school and at work.
Self-injury or high-risk behavior.
Suicidal thoughts and behavior.
Preventions for Dissociative disorders
Children who are physically, emotionally or sexually abused are at increased risk of developing mental health conditions, such as dissociative disorders. If stress or other personal issues are affecting the way you treat your child, seek help.
Talk to a trusted person such as a friend, your health care professional or a leader in your faith community.
Ask for help finding resources such as parenting support groups and family therapists.
Look for churches, other faith-based groups and community education programs that offer parenting classes that also may help you learn a healthier parenting style.
If you or your child was abused or went through another shocking, distressing or painful event, see a doctor or other health care professional right away. Your doctor can refer you to a mental health professional who can help you or your child recover and learn healthy coping skills. Or you may be able to contact mental health services directly.
Condition name:Diverticulitis
Overview of Diverticulitis:
Diverticulitis is inflammation of irregular bulging pouches in the wall of the large intestine.
Typically, the wall of the large intestine, also called the colon, is smooth. An irregular, bulging pouch in the colon wall is called a diverticulum. Multiple pouches are called diverticula.
Diverticula are common, especially after age 50. They are usually found in the lower part of the colon. Most often, they don't cause problems. The presence of diverticula is called diverticulosis. Diverticulosis isn't a disease condition.
When these pouches become inflamed, the condition is called diverticulitis. Inflammation is immune system activity that increases blood flow and fluids to a site in the body and delivers disease-fighting cells. Inflammation of diverticula can cause severe pain, fever, nausea and changes in your stool habits.
Mild diverticulitis is usually treated with rest, changes in your diet and possibly antibiotics. Severe diverticulitis usually needs antibiotic treatment in the hospital. Surgery may be needed for severe or frequent diverticulitis.
There are no home remedies available for Diverticulitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Diverticulitis :
A common symptom of diverticulitis is pain in the area below the chest called the abdomen. Most often, pain is in the lower left abdomen.
Pain from diverticulitis is usually sudden and intense. Pain may be mild and gradually worsen, or the intensity of the pain may vary over time.
Other signs and symptoms of diverticulitis may include:
Nausea.
Fever.
Tenderness in the abdomen when touched.
Changes in stool, including sudden diarrhea or constipation.
Causes for Diverticulitis :
Diverticula gradually develop over time in the walls of the colon. They are common in older adults. Pressure in the colon — possibly from spasms or straining — may cause diverticula to form where the wall of the colon is weak.
Diverticulitis is inflammation of one or more diverticula. This may happen because of bacterial disease or damage to diverticula tissues.
Risk Factors for Diverticulitis:
Diverticulitis is more common among people over 50. Other factors that increase the risk of diverticulitis include:
Obesity.
Smoking.
A diet of low-fiber foods.
A diet high in red meat.
Heavy alcohol use.
Lack of exercise.
Low vitamin D levels.
Certain medicines, such as steroids, opioids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Complications for Diverticulitis:
About 15 percent of people with diverticulitis develop complications. These may include:
A pocket of pus from bacterial disease, called an abscess.
Blockage of the colon.
An irregular passageway, called a fistula, between the bowel and another organ in the body.
A tear in the colon wall that allows waste to spill out, causing serious disease of the abdomen lining, called peritonitis.
Bleeding from ruptured blood vessels, also called diverticular hemorrhage.
Preventions for Diverticulitis
To help prevent diverticulitis:
Exercise regularly. Regular, vigorous exercise decreases the risk of diverticulitis.
Eat a high-fiber diet. A high-fiber diet improves the movement of waste through the colon and decreases the risk of diverticulitis. Fiber-rich foods include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, seeds and beans. Cut back on red meats and sweets.
Maintain a healthy weight. Talk to your healthcare professional or a dietitian about goals for a healthy weight for you and strategies to reach your goals.
Drink plenty of fluids. Fiber works by absorbing water and increasing the soft, bulky waste in your colon. Drinking fluids improves the movement of waste and prevents constipation.
Quit smoking and limit alcohol use. Smoking and heavy alcohol use are associated with an increased risk of diverticulitis.
In the past, healthcare professionals recommended that people with diverticulitis avoid nuts, seeds and popcorn. Studies have shown that these foods do not increase the risk of diverticulitis. Seeds and some nuts are good sources of fiber.
Condition name:Dizziness
Overview of Dizziness:
Dizziness is a term used to describe a range of sensations, such as feeling faint, woozy, weak or unsteady. Dizziness that creates the false sense that you or your surroundings are spinning or moving is called vertigo.
Dizziness is one of the more common reasons adults visit their doctors. Frequent dizzy spells or constant dizziness can significantly affect your life. But dizziness rarely signals a life-threatening condition.
Treatment of dizziness depends on the cause and your symptoms. It's usually effective, but the problem may recur.
Home Remedies for Dizziness:
If you tend to experience repeated episodes of dizziness, consider these tips:
Be aware of the possibility of losing your balance, which can lead to falling and serious injury.
Avoid moving suddenly and walk with a cane for stability, if needed.
Fall-proof your home by removing tripping hazards such as area rugs and exposed electrical cords. Use nonslip mats on your bath and shower floors. Use good lighting.
Sit or lie down immediately when you feel dizzy. Lie still with your eyes closed in a darkened room if you're experiencing a severe episode of vertigo.
Avoid driving a car or operating heavy machinery if you experience frequent dizziness without warning.
Avoid using caffeine, alcohol, salt and tobacco. Excessive use of these substances can worsen your signs and symptoms.
Drink enough fluids, eat a healthy diet, get enough sleep and avoid stress.
If your dizziness is caused by a medication, talk with your doctor about discontinuing it or lowering the dose.
If your dizziness comes with nausea, try an over-the-counter (nonprescription) antihistamine, such as meclizine or dimenhydrinate (Dramamine). These may cause drowsiness. Nondrowsy antihistamines aren't as effective.
If your dizziness is caused by overheating or dehydration, rest in a cool place and drink water or a sports drink (Gatorade, Powerade, others).
Symptoms for Dizziness :
People experiencing dizziness may describe it as any of a number of sensations, such as:
A false sense of motion or spinning (vertigo)
Lightheadedness or feeling faint
Unsteadiness or a loss of balance
A feeling of floating, wooziness or heavy-headedness
These feelings may be triggered or worsened by walking, standing up or moving your head. Your dizziness may be accompanied by nausea or be so sudden or severe that you need to sit or lie down. The episode may last seconds or days and may recur.
Causes for Dizziness :
Dizziness has many possible causes, including inner ear disturbance, motion sickness and medication effects. Sometimes it's caused by an underlying health condition, such as poor circulation, infection or injury.
The way dizziness makes you feel and your triggers provide clues for possible causes. How long the dizziness lasts and any other symptoms you have also help pinpoint the cause.
Risk Factors for Dizziness:
Factors that may increase your risk of getting dizzy include:
Age. Older adults are more likely to have medical conditions that cause dizziness, especially a sense of imbalance. They're also more likely to take medications that can cause dizziness.
A past episode of dizziness. If you've experienced dizziness before, you're more likely to get dizzy in the future.
Complications for Dizziness:
Dizziness can increase your risk of falling and injuring yourself. Experiencing dizziness while driving a car or operating heavy machinery can increase the likelihood of an accident. You may also experience long-term consequences if an existing health condition that may be causing your dizziness goes untreated.
There are no preventive measures available for Dizziness in the knowledge baseCondition name:Double uterus
Overview of Double uterus:
A double uterus is a rare condition that is present at birth in some women. In a female fetus, the uterus starts out as two small tubes. As the fetus grows, the tubes typically join to create one larger, hollow organ. This organ is the uterus.
Sometimes the tubes don't join completely. Instead, each one develops into a separate organ. A double uterus may have one opening into one vagina. This opening is called the cervix. In other cases, each uterus has its own cervix. Often, there's also a thin wall of tissue that runs down the length of the vagina. This divides the vagina in two, with two separate openings.
Women who have a double uterus often have successful pregnancies. But the condition can make you more likely to have a miscarriage or premature birth.
There are no home remedies available for Double uterus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Double uterus :
A double uterus often causes no symptoms. The condition may be discovered during a regular pelvic exam. Or it may be found during imaging tests to find the cause of repeated miscarriages.
Women who have a double vagina along with a double uterus may first see a health care provider for menstrual bleeding that isn't stopped by a tampon. This can happen when a tampon is placed in one vagina, but blood still flows from the second uterus and vagina.
Causes for Double uterus :
Health experts don't know exactly why some fetuses develop a double uterus. Genetics may play a role. That's because this rare condition sometimes runs in families.
Risk Factors for Double uterus:
The risk factors for a double uterus are not well understood. The cause of the condition isn't known either. Genetics likely plays a role, along with other unknown factors.
Complications for Double uterus:
Many women with a double uterus have active sex lives. They also may have routine pregnancies and successful deliveries. But sometimes a double uterus and other uterine factors can cause:
Infertility.
Miscarriage.
Premature birth.
Kidney problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Double uterus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Double-outlet right ventricle
Overview of Double-outlet right ventricle:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Double-outlet right ventricle in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Double-outlet right ventricle :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Double-outlet right ventricle in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Double-outlet right ventricle in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Double-outlet right ventricle in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Double-outlet right ventricle in the knowledge baseCondition name:Down syndrome
Overview of Down syndrome:
Down syndrome is a genetic disorder caused when abnormal cell division results in an extra full or partial copy of chromosome 21. This extra genetic material causes the developmental changes and physical features of Down syndrome.
Down syndrome varies in severity among individuals, causing lifelong intellectual disability and developmental delays. It's the most common genetic chromosomal disorder and cause of learning disabilities in children. It also commonly causes other medical abnormalities, including heart and gastrointestinal disorders.
Better understanding of Down syndrome and early interventions can greatly increase the quality of life for children and adults with this disorder and help them live fulfilling lives.
There are no home remedies available for Down syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Down syndrome :
Each person with Down syndrome is an individual — intellectual and developmental problems may be mild, moderate or severe. Some people are healthy while others have significant health problems such as serious heart defects.
Children and adults with Down syndrome have distinct facial features. Though not all people with Down syndrome have the same features, some of the more common features include:
Flattened face
Small head
Short neck
Protruding tongue
Upward slanting eye lids (palpebral fissures)
Unusually shaped or small ears
Poor muscle tone
Broad, short hands with a single crease in the palm
Relatively short fingers and small hands and feet
Excessive flexibility
Tiny white spots on the colored part (iris) of the eye called Brushfield's spots
Short height
Infants with Down syndrome may be average size, but typically they grow slowly and remain shorter than other children the same age.
Causes for Down syndrome :
Human cells normally contain 23 pairs of chromosomes. One chromosome in each pair comes from your father, the other from your mother.
Down syndrome results when abnormal cell division involving chromosome 21 occurs. These cell division abnormalities result in an extra partial or full chromosome 21. This extra genetic material is responsible for the characteristic features and developmental problems of Down syndrome. Any one of three genetic variations can cause Down syndrome:
Trisomy 21. About 95 percent of the time, Down syndrome is caused by trisomy 21 — the person has three copies of chromosome 21, instead of the usual two copies, in all cells. This is caused by abnormal cell division during the development of the sperm cell or the egg cell.
Mosaic Down syndrome. In this rare form of Down syndrome, a person has only some cells with an extra copy of chromosome 21. This mosaic of normal and abnormal cells is caused by abnormal cell division after fertilization.
Translocation Down syndrome. Down syndrome can also occur when a portion of chromosome 21 becomes attached (translocated) onto another chromosome, before or at conception. These children have the usual two copies of chromosome 21, but they also have additional genetic material from chromosome 21 attached to another chromosome.
There are no known behavioral or environmental factors that cause Down syndrome.
Risk Factors for Down syndrome:
Some parents have a greater risk of having a baby with Down syndrome. Risk factors include:
Advancing maternal age. A woman's chances of giving birth to a child with Down syndrome increase with age because older eggs have a greater risk of improper chromosome division. A woman's risk of conceiving a child with Down syndrome increases after 35 years of age. However, most children with Down syndrome are born to women under age 35 because younger women have far more babies.
Being carriers of the genetic translocation for Down syndrome. Both men and women can pass the genetic translocation for Down syndrome on to their children.
Having had one child with Down syndrome. Parents who have one child with Down syndrome and parents who have a translocation themselves are at an increased risk of having another child with Down syndrome. A genetic counselor can help parents assess the risk of having a second child with Down syndrome.
Complications for Down syndrome:
People with Down syndrome can have a variety of complications, some of which become more prominent as they get older. These complications can include:
Heart defects. About half the children with Down syndrome are born with some type of congenital heart defect. These heart problems can be life-threatening and may require surgery in early infancy.
Gastrointestinal (GI) defects. GI abnormalities occur in some children with Down syndrome and may include abnormalities of the intestines, esophagus, trachea and anus. The risk of developing digestive problems, such as GI blockage, heartburn (gastroesophageal reflux) or celiac disease, may be increased.
Immune disorders. Because of abnormalities in their immune systems, people with Down syndrome are at increased risk of developing autoimmune disorders, some forms of cancer, and infectious diseases, such as pneumonia.
Sleep apnea. Because of soft tissue and skeletal changes that lead to the obstruction of their airways, children and adults with Down syndrome are at greater risk of obstructive sleep apnea.
Obesity. People with Down syndrome have a greater tendency to be obese compared with the general population.
Spinal problems. Some people with Down syndrome may have a misalignment of the top two vertebrae in the neck (atlantoaxial instability). This condition puts them at risk of serious injury to the spinal cord from overextension of the neck.
Leukemia. Young children with Down syndrome have an increased risk of leukemia.
Dementia. People with Down syndrome have a greatly increased risk of dementia — signs and symptoms may begin around age 50. Having Down syndrome also increases the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.
Other problems. Down syndrome may also be associated with other health conditions, including endocrine problems, dental problems, seizures, ear infections, and hearing and vision problems.
For people with Down syndrome, getting routine medical care and treating issues when needed can help with maintaining a healthy lifestyle.
Preventions for Down syndrome
There's no way to prevent Down syndrome. If you're at high risk of having a child with Down syndrome or you already have one child with Down syndrome, you may want to consult a genetic counselor before becoming pregnant.
A genetic counselor can help you understand your chances of having a child with Down syndrome. He or she can also explain the prenatal tests that are available and help explain the pros and cons of testing.
Condition name:Dressler syndrome
Overview of Dressler syndrome:
Dressler syndrome is swelling and irritation of the sac around the heart that happens after damage to the heart muscle. The damage may trigger an immune system response that causes the condition. The damage can result from a heart attack, heart surgery or a serious injury.
Symptoms of Dressler syndrome include chest pain that can feel like chest pain from a heart attack.
Swelling and irritation of the sac around the heart is called pericarditis. Dressler syndrome is a type of pericarditis that can start after the heart muscle is damaged. So you may hear Dressler syndrome called post-traumatic pericarditis.
Some other names for the condition are:
Post-myocardial infarction syndrome.
Post-cardiac injury syndrome.
Post-pericardiotomy syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for Dressler syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dressler syndrome :
Symptoms of Dressler syndrome are likely to start weeks to a few months after a heart attack, surgery or injury to the chest. Symptoms can include:
Chest pain, which may get worse with deep breaths.
Fever.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Dressler syndrome :
Experts think Dressler syndrome is caused by the immune system's response to heart damage. The body reacts to the injured tissue by sending immune cells and proteins called antibodies to clean up and repair the affected area. Sometimes this response causes swelling due to the inflammation in the sac around the heart that's known as the pericardium.
Dressler syndrome can happen after a heart attack or some heart surgeries or procedures. It also can happen after a serious injury to the chest, such as trauma from a car accident.
Risk Factors for Dressler syndrome:
Damage to the heart muscle increases the risk of Dressler syndrome. Some things that cause heart muscle are:
Chest injury.
Some types of heart surgery.
Heart attack.
Complications for Dressler syndrome:
A complication of Dressler syndrome is fluid buildup in the tissues surrounding the lungs called pleural effusion.
Rarely, Dressler syndrome can cause more-serious complications, including:
Cardiac tamponade. Swelling of the pericardium can cause fluid to build up in the sac. The fluid can put pressure on the heart. The pressure forces the heart to work harder, and the heart doesn't pump blood as well as it should.
Constrictive pericarditis. Swelling that's ongoing or that keeps coming back can cause the pericardium to become thick or scarred. The scarring can reduce the heart's ability to pump blood.
Preventions for Dressler syndrome
Some studies suggest that taking the anti-inflammatory medicine colchicine (Colcrys, Gloperba, others) soon after heart surgery may help prevent Dressler syndrome.
Condition name:Drug addiction (substance use disorder)
Overview of Drug addiction (substance use disorder):
Drug addiction, also called substance use disorder, is a disease that affects a person's brain and behavior and leads to an inability to control the use of a legal or illegal drug or medicine. Substances such as alcohol, marijuana and nicotine also are considered drugs. When you're addicted, you may continue using the drug despite the harm it causes.
Drug addiction can start with experimental use of a recreational drug in social situations, and, for some people, the drug use becomes more frequent. For others, particularly with opioids, drug addiction begins when they take prescribed medicines or receive them from others who have prescriptions.
The risk of addiction and how fast you become addicted varies by drug. Some drugs, such as opioid painkillers, have a higher risk and cause addiction more quickly than others.
As time passes, you may need larger doses of the drug to get high. Soon you may need the drug just to feel good. As your drug use increases, you may find that it's increasingly difficult to go without the drug. Attempts to stop drug use may cause intense cravings and make you feel physically ill. These are called withdrawal symptoms.
Help from your health care provider, family, friends, support groups or an organized treatment program can help you overcome your drug addiction and stay drug-free.
There are no home remedies available for Drug addiction (substance use disorder) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Drug addiction (substance use disorder) :
Drug addiction symptoms or behaviors include, among others:
Feeling that you have to use the drug regularly — daily or even several times a day
Having intense urges for the drug that block out any other thoughts
Over time, needing more of the drug to get the same effect
Taking larger amounts of the drug over a longer period of time than you intended
Making certain that you maintain a supply of the drug
Spending money on the drug, even though you can't afford it
Not meeting obligations and work responsibilities, or cutting back on social or recreational activities because of drug use
Continuing to use the drug, even though you know it's causing problems in your life or causing you physical or psychological harm
Doing things to get the drug that you normally wouldn't do, such as stealing
Driving or doing other risky activities when you're under the influence of the drug
Spending a good deal of time getting the drug, using the drug or recovering from the effects of the drug
Failing in your attempts to stop using the drug
Experiencing withdrawal symptoms when you attempt to stop taking the drug
Causes for Drug addiction (substance use disorder) :
Like many mental health disorders, several factors may contribute to development of drug addiction. The main factors are:
Environment. Environmental factors, including your family's beliefs and attitudes and exposure to a peer group that encourages drug use, seem to play a role in initial drug use.
Genetics. Once you've started using a drug, the development into addiction may be influenced by inherited (genetic) traits, which may delay or speed up the disease progression.
Risk Factors for Drug addiction (substance use disorder):
People of any age, sex or economic status can become addicted to a drug. Certain factors can affect the likelihood and speed of developing an addiction:
Family history of addiction. Drug addiction is more common in some families and likely involves an increased risk based on genes. If you have a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with alcohol or drug addiction, you're at greater risk of developing a drug addiction.
Mental health disorder. If you have a mental health disorder such as depression, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or post-traumatic stress disorder, you're more likely to become addicted to drugs. Using drugs can become a way of coping with painful feelings, such as anxiety, depression and loneliness, and can make these problems even worse.
Peer pressure. Peer pressure is a strong factor in starting to use and misuse drugs, particularly for young people.
Lack of family involvement. Difficult family situations or lack of a bond with your parents or siblings may increase the risk of addiction, as can a lack of parental supervision.
Early use. Using drugs at an early age can cause changes in the developing brain and increase the likelihood of progressing to drug addiction.
Taking a highly addictive drug. Some drugs, such as stimulants, cocaine or opioid painkillers, may result in faster development of addiction than other drugs. Smoking or injecting drugs can increase the potential for addiction. Taking drugs considered less addicting — so-called "light drugs" — can start you on a pathway of drug use and addiction.
Complications for Drug addiction (substance use disorder):
Drug use can have significant and damaging short-term and long-term effects. Taking some drugs can be particularly risky, especially if you take high doses or combine them with other drugs or alcohol. Here are some examples.
Methamphetamine, opiates and cocaine are highly addictive and cause multiple short-term and long-term health consequences, including psychotic behavior, seizures or death due to overdose. Opioid drugs affect the part of the brain that controls breathing, and overdose can result in death. Taking opioids with alcohol increases this risk.
GHB and flunitrazepam may cause sedation, confusion and memory loss. These so-called "date rape drugs" are known to impair the ability to resist unwanted contact and recollection of the event. At high doses, they can cause seizures, coma and death. The danger increases when these drugs are taken with alcohol.
MDMA — also known as molly or ecstasy — can interfere with the body's ability to regulate temperature. A severe spike in body temperature can result in liver, kidney or heart failure and death. Other complications can include severe dehydration, leading to seizures. Long-term, MDMA can damage the brain.
One particular danger of club drugs is that the liquid, pill or powder forms of these drugs available on the street often contain unknown substances that can be harmful, including other illegally manufactured or pharmaceutical drugs.
Due to the toxic nature of inhalants, users may develop brain damage of different levels of severity. Sudden death can occur even after a single exposure.
Preventions for Drug addiction (substance use disorder)
The best way to prevent an addiction to a drug is not to take the drug at all. If your health care provider prescribes a drug with the potential for addiction, use care when taking the drug and follow instructions.
Health care providers should prescribe these medicines at safe doses and amounts and monitor their use so that you're not given too great a dose or for too long a time. If you feel you need to take more than the prescribed dose of a medicine, talk to your health care provider.
Condition name:Drug allergy
Overview of Drug allergy:
A drug allergy is the reaction of the immune system to a medicine. Any medicine — nonprescription, prescription or herbal — can provoke a drug allergy. However, a drug allergy is more likely with certain medicines.
The most common symptoms of drug allergy are hives, rash or fever. But a drug allergy also may cause serious reactions. This includes a severe, life-threatening condition known as anaphylaxis.
A drug allergy is not the same as a drug side effect. A side effect is a known possible reaction to a medicine. Side effects to medicines are listed on their drug labels. A drug allergy also is different from drug toxicity. Drug toxicity is caused by an overdose of medicine.
There are no home remedies available for Drug allergy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Drug allergy :
Symptoms of a serious drug allergy often occur within an hour after taking a drug. Other reactions, particularly rashes, can occur hours, days or weeks later.
Drug allergy symptoms may include:
Skin rash
Hives
Itching
Fever
Swelling
Shortness of breath
Wheezing
Runny nose
Itchy, watery eyes
Causes for Drug allergy :
A drug allergy occurs when your immune system mistakenly identifies a drug as a harmful substance, such as a virus or bacterium. Once your immune system detects a drug as a harmful substance, it develops an antibody specific to that drug. This can happen the first time you take a drug, but sometimes an allergy doesn't develop until there have been repeated exposures.
The next time you take the drug, these specific antibodies flag the drug and direct immune system attacks on the substance. Chemicals released by this activity cause the symptoms associated with an allergic reaction.
You may not be aware of your first exposure to a drug, however. Some evidence suggests that trace amounts of a drug in the food supply, such as an antibiotic, may be sufficient for the immune system to create an antibody to it.
Some allergic reactions may result from a somewhat different process. Researchers believe that some drugs can bind directly to a certain type of immune system white blood cell called a T cell. This event causes the release of chemicals that can result in an allergic reaction the first time you take the drug.
Risk Factors for Drug allergy:
While anyone can have an allergic reaction to a drug, a few factors can increase your risk. These include:
A history of other allergies, such as food allergy or hay fever
A personal or family history of drug allergy
Increased exposure to a drug, because of high doses, repeated use or prolonged use
Certain illnesses commonly associated with allergic drug reactions, such as HIV infection or the Epstein-Barr virus
There are no Complications available for Drug allergy in the knowledge basePreventions for Drug allergy
If you have a drug allergy, the best prevention is to stop using the problem drug. Steps you can take to protect yourself include the following:
Inform health care workers. Be sure that your drug allergy is clearly identified in your medical records. Inform other health care providers, such as your dentist or any medical specialist.
Wear a bracelet. Wear a medical alert bracelet that identifies your drug allergy. This information can ensure proper treatment in an emergency.
Condition name:Dry macular degeneration
Overview of Dry macular degeneration:
Dry macular degeneration is a common eye disorder among people over 50. It causes blurred or reduced central vision due to the breaking down of the inner layers of the macula (MAK-u-luh). The macula is the part of the retina that gives the eye clear vision in the direct line of sight.
Dry macular degeneration may start in one eye before developing in the other eye. It also may develop in both eyes at the same time. Over time, vision may worsen and affect the ability to do things, such as read, drive and recognize faces. But having dry macular degeneration doesn't mean you'll lose all your sight. Vision loss is typically central, and people retain their peripheral vision. Some people have only mild central vision loss. In others, it can be more severe.
Early detection and self-care measures may delay vision loss due to dry macular degeneration.
Home Remedies for Dry macular degeneration:
Even after receiving a diagnosis of dry macular degeneration, you can take steps that may help slow vision loss.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting.
Choose a healthy diet. The antioxidant vitamins in fruits and vegetables contribute to eye health. Kale, spinach, broccoli, squash and other vegetables have high levels of antioxidants, including lutein and zeaxanthin, which may benefit people with macular degeneration. Eating foods containing high levels of zinc also may be helpful for people with macular degeneration. These include high-protein foods, such as beef, pork and lamb. Nonmeat sources include milk, cheese, yogurt, whole-grain cereals and whole-wheat bread.
Another good choice is healthy unsaturated fat, such as in olive oil. And research studies have shown that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as in salmon, tuna and walnuts, may lower the risk of advanced age-related macular degeneration (AMD). But the same benefit is not shown from taking omega-3 supplements, such as fish oil pills.
Manage your other medical conditions. If you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, for example, take your medicine and follow your provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Have routine eye exams. Ask your eye doctor about the recommended schedule for follow-up exams. In between checkups, you can do a self-assessment of your vision using an Amsler grid. These steps will help tell you if your condition develops into wet macular degeneration, which can be treated with medicines.
Symptoms for Dry macular degeneration :
Dry macular degeneration symptoms usually develop gradually and without pain. They may include:
Visual distortions, such as straight lines seeming bent.
Reduced central vision in one or both eyes.
The need for brighter light when reading or doing close-up work.
Increased difficulty adapting to low light levels, such as when entering a dimly lit restaurant or theater.
Increased blurriness of printed words.
Difficulty recognizing faces.
A well-defined blurry spot or blind spot in the field of vision.
Dry macular degeneration can affect one or both eyes. If only one eye is affected, you may not notice any changes in your vision. This is because your good eye may compensate for the affected eye. And the condition doesn't affect the side vision, so it does not cause total blindness.
Dry macular degeneration is one of two types of age-related macular degeneration. It can progress to wet macular degeneration, which is when blood vessels grow and leak under the retina. The dry type is more common, but it usually progresses slowly over years. The wet type is more likely to cause a relatively sudden change in vision resulting in serious vision loss.
Causes for Dry macular degeneration :
No one knows exactly what causes dry macular degeneration. Research indicates that it may be a combination of family genes and environmental factors, including smoking, obesity and diet.
The condition develops as the eye ages. Dry macular degeneration affects the macula. The macula is the area of the retina that's responsible for clear vision in the direct line of sight. Over time, tissue in the macula may thin and lose cells responsible for vision.
Risk Factors for Dry macular degeneration:
Factors that may increase your risk of macular degeneration include:
Age. This disease is most common in people over 60.
Family history and genetics. This disease has a hereditary component. Researchers have identified several genes linked to the condition.
Race. Macular degeneration is more common in white people.
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes or being regularly exposed to tobacco smoke greatly increases your risk of macular degeneration.
Obesity. Research indicates that being obese may increase your chance that early or intermediate macular degeneration will progress to the more severe form of the disease.
Cardiovascular disease. If you have heart or blood vessel disease, you may be at higher risk of macular degeneration.
Complications for Dry macular degeneration:
People whose dry macular degeneration has progressed to central vision loss have a higher risk of depression and social isolation. With profound loss of vision, people may see visual hallucinations. This condition is called Charles Bonnet syndrome. Dry macular degeneration may progress to wet macular degeneration, which can quickly cause vision loss if left untreated.
Preventions for Dry macular degeneration
It's important to have routine eye exams to identify early signs of macular degeneration. The following measures may help reduce your risk of developing dry macular degeneration:
Manage all medical conditions. For example, if you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Don't smoke. Smokers are more likely to develop macular degeneration than are nonsmokers. Ask your provider for help stopping smoking.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. These foods contain antioxidant vitamins that reduce your risk of developing macular degeneration.
Include fish in your diet. Omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in fish, may reduce the risk of macular degeneration. Nuts such as walnuts also contain omega-3 fatty acids.
Condition name:Dry mouth
Overview of Dry mouth:
Dry mouth, also called xerostomia (zeer-o-STOE-me-uh), is when the salivary glands in the mouth don't make enough saliva to keep the mouth wet. Dry mouth often is due to aging, the side effects of certain medicines or radiation therapy for cancer. Less often, a condition directly affecting the salivary glands can cause dry mouth. You also may experience dry mouth temporarily if you are thirsty or feel anxious about something.
For some people, dry mouth is only annoying. For others, dry mouth can greatly affect general health and the health of teeth and gums. Also, it can affect how much people eat and how much they enjoy what they eat.
Treatment for dry mouth depends on the cause.
Home Remedies for Dry mouth:
In addition to your healthcare professional's advice, these tips may ease dry mouth symptoms:
Sip water or sugar-free drinks or suck on ice chips. Do this throughout the day to moisten your mouth. Also, drink water during meals to make it easier to chew and swallow.
Chew sugar-free gum or suck on sugar-free hard candies. Products that contain xylitol also may help prevent cavities. But xylitol, which is often found in sugar-free gum and sugar-free candies, may cause some people to have gas or diarrhea if they consume it in large amounts.
Try saliva substitutes that contain xylitol and are available without a prescription. These include Mouth Kote or Oasis Moisturizing Mouth Spray. Or try saliva substitutes that contain carboxymethylcellulose (kahr-bok-see-meth-ul-SEL-u-lohs) or hydroxyethyl cellulose (hi-drok-see-ETH-ul SEL-u-lohs), such as Biotene Dry Mouth Oralbalance Gel.
Breathe through your nose, not your mouth. You may need to seek treatment for snoring if it causes you to breathe through your mouth during the night.
Add moisture to the air at night. Use a room humidifier.
Moisturize your lips. This helps soothe dry or cracked areas.
Stay away from products that can make your symptoms worse. These include:
Caffeine and alcohol. These products can cause dryness and irritation. Don't use a mouthwash that contains alcohol.
Tobacco. If you smoke or chew tobacco, stop. Tobacco products can dry and irritate your mouth.
Antihistamines and decongestants available without a prescription. These medicines can worsen your dry mouth.
Sugary or acidic foods and candies. These foods raise the risk of tooth decay. Also, stay away from spicy or salty foods because they can cause irritation.
Saliva is important to maintain the health of your teeth and mouth. Taking these steps to protect your teeth also may help your dry mouth:
Brush with a fluoride toothpaste and floss your teeth. Ask your dentist if you might benefit from prescription fluoride toothpaste, a toothpaste containing betaine or a tooth gel to neutralize bacteria acids.
Use fluoride or rinses. To prevent cavities, your dentist might fit you for fluoride trays, which you fill with fluoride and wear over your teeth at night. Your dentist also may recommend that you brush on fluoride gel before bedtime or use a chlorhexidine rinse weekly.
See your dentist at least twice yearly. Have your teeth examined and plaque removed to help prevent tooth decay.
Symptoms for Dry mouth :
If you're not producing enough saliva, you may notice these symptoms all or most of the time:
Dryness or a feeling of stickiness in your mouth.
Saliva that seems thick and stringy.
Bad breath.
Having a hard time chewing, speaking and swallowing.
Dry or sore throat and hoarseness.
Dry or grooved tongue.
A changed sense of taste.
Problems wearing dentures.
Lipstick stuck to teeth.
Saliva helps prevent tooth decay by washing away sugar and food particles and making bacteria neutral and less harmful. When you don't have enough saliva, you may find it harder to taste, chew and swallow. You also may have a hard time digesting food.
Causes for Dry mouth :
Dry mouth is caused when the salivary glands in the mouth don't make enough saliva to keep the mouth wet. Sometimes these glands may not work properly due to:
Medicines. Hundreds of medicines, including many medicines available without a prescription, can cause dry mouth. Among the medicines more likely to cause problems are those for depression, high blood pressure and anxiety, as well as some antihistamines, decongestants, muscle relaxants and pain relievers.
Aging. Many older people have symptoms of dry mouth as they age. Certain changes in how the body processes medicine, poor nutrition and long-term health problems can cause dry mouth.
Cancer therapy. Medicine to treat cancer, called chemotherapy, can change the nature of saliva and the amount produced. This may be for a limited time, with typical salivary flow returning after treatment ends. Radiation treatments to the head and neck can damage salivary glands, greatly lowering saliva production. This may be for a limited time, or it could be lasting, depending on the radiation dose and area treated.
Nerve damage. An injury or surgery that causes nerve damage to the head and neck area can be due to dry mouth.
Other health conditions. Dry mouth can be due to certain health conditions, such as diabetes, stroke, a yeast infection in the mouth or Alzheimer's disease. Or dry mouth could be due to autoimmune diseases, such as Sjogren syndrome or HIV/AIDS.
Snoring and mouth breathing. Snoring and breathing with the mouth open can lead to dry mouth.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Drinking alcohol and smoking or chewing tobacco can lead to more dry mouth symptoms.
Use of legal or illegal drugs that may be sold on the streets. Methamphetamine use can cause serious dry mouth, and it can damage teeth. Marijuana use also can cause dry mouth.
Risk Factors for Dry mouth:
Risk of dry mouth is higher in people who:
Take medicines that have dry mouth listed as a possible side effect.
Are being treated for cancer.
Have nerve damage in the head and neck area.
Have other health conditions, such as diabetes, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Sjogren syndrome or HIV/AIDS.
Use tobacco products.
Drink alcohol.
Use street drugs.
Eat sugary or acidic foods or candies.
Complications for Dry mouth:
Not having enough saliva and getting dry mouth can lead to:
Increased plaque, tooth decay and gum disease.
Mouth sores.
A yeast infection in the mouth, also known as thrush.
Sores or split skin at the corners of the mouth, or cracked lips.
Poor nutrition from having problems with chewing and swallowing.
There are no preventive measures available for Dry mouth in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dry skin
Overview of Dry skin:
Dry skin makes the skin look and feel rough, itchy, flaky or scaly. The location where these dry patches form vary from person to person. It's a common condition that affects people of all ages.
Dry skin, also known as xerosis or xeroderma, has many causes, including cold or dry weather, sun damage, harsh soaps, and overbathing.
You can do a lot on your own to improve dry skin, including moisturizing and practicing sun protection year-round. Try various products and skin care routines to find an approach that works for you.
Home Remedies for Dry skin:
The following measures can help keep your skin moist and healthy:
Gently wash your face at least twice a day. Use a gentle, alcohol-free, nonfoaming cleanser on your face twice a day and after sweating. Products with stearic acid (found in shea butter) or linoleic acid (found in argan oil and others) can help repair your skin. If you have sensitive skin, wash with a cleanser in the evening and just rinse with water other times.
While your skin is still damp, apply any topical medication you're using, wait a few minutes (see medication packaging for specifics), then apply your moisturizer. If you use cosmetics, consider selecting products with a cream or oil base. Use a moisturizer that contains sunblock or a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously and reapply every two hours â€” or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Moisturize. Apply moisturizer several times a day, especially when your skin feels dry and after handwashing or bathing, while your skin is still moist. Ask your doctor about the pros and cons of various products for your skin and condition. You may need to try several products before you find those you like, that help you and that you'll use regularly.
Look for healing ingredients such as urea, ceramides, fatty acids and glycerol (also known as glycerin), shea butter, and cocoa butter. Look for fragrance-free products that don't cause acne (noncomedogenic) and don't contain allergy-causing substances (hypoallergenic). Avoid products that contain sodium lauryl sulfate, which is drying.
For the face and neck, you might want to use a cream. Choose something that's easy to apply and leaves no visible residue. If you are acne-prone, avoid products on your face that contain petroleum jelly, cocoa butter or coconut oil. If you skin is very oily, try using a sunscreen instead of a moisturizer. If you have mature skin, you might prevent scaly, flaky skin by using products that contain antioxidants or alpha hydroxy acid. Moisturizers often form the basis for wrinkle creams, with added retinoids, antioxidants, peptides and other ingredients.
If nonfacial skin is very dry, you might want to use a thicker moisturizer (Eucerin, Cetaphil, others) or an oil, such as baby oil. Oil has more staying power than do lotions and prevents the evaporation of water from the skin's surface. Another possibility is a petrolatum-based product (Vaseline, Aquaphor, others). If it feels too greasy, use it only at bedtime or just on tiny cracks in your skin. For very dry hands, apply petroleum jelly liberally at bedtime and put on plain cotton socks or gloves.
Use warm water and limit bath time. Long showers or baths and hot water remove your skin's natural oils. Limit bathing to no more than once a day and no longer than 5-10 minutes. Use warm, not hot, water.
Use allergen-free moisturizing soap. For handwashing, use fragrance-free (hypoallergenic) moisturizing soap. Then apply a moisturizing cream while your hands are still damp.
In the shower or bath, try a nonsoap cleansing cream or shower gel, and use soap only in areas where needed, such as the armpits and groin. Avoid loofahs and pumice stones. Rinse thoroughly and pat dry.
Use a humidifier. Hot, dry, indoor air can parch sensitive skin and worsen itching and flaking. A portable home humidifier or one attached to your furnace adds moisture to the air inside your home.
Choose fabrics that are kind to your skin. Natural fibers, such as cotton, allow your skin to breathe. Wool, although natural, sometimes irritates even healthy skin.
For laundry, use detergents without dyes or perfumes, both of which can irritate your skin. These types of products usually have the word "free" in their names.
Relieve itchiness. If dry skin causes itchiness, apply a clean, cool, damp cloth to the affected area. You might also apply an anti-itch cream or ointment, containing at least 1% hydrocortisone.
If these measures don't relieve your symptoms or if your symptoms worsen, see your doctor or consult a dermatologist about creating a personalized skin care plan based on your skin type and any skin condition you may have.
Mayo Clinic Minute: The many benefits of petroleum jelly
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: The many benefits of petroleum jelly
More Information
How to heal cracked heels
How to heal cracked skin at thumb tip
Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
Symptoms for Dry skin :
Dry skin is often temporary or seasonal — you might get it only in winter, for example — or you might need to treat it long term. Signs and symptoms of dry skin might vary based on your age, health status, skin tone, living environment and sun exposure. They include:
A feeling of skin tightness
Skin that feels and looks rough
Itchiness (pruritus)
Slight to severe flaking skin, which causes the ashy look that can affect dry brown and black skin
Slight to severe scaling or peeling
Cracked "dry riverbed" look to leg
Fine lines or cracks
Skin that ranges from reddish on white skin to grayish on brown and black skin
Deep cracks that may bleed
Causes for Dry skin :
Dry skin is due to water loss from the outer layer of skin. It might be caused by:
Heat. Central heating, wood-burning stoves, space heaters and fireplaces all reduce humidity.
Environment. Living in cold, windy conditions or low-humidity climates.
Too much bathing or scrubbing. Taking long, hot showers or baths or scrubbing your skin too much can dry your skin. Bathing more than once a day can remove the natural oils from your skin too.
Harsh soaps and detergents. Many popular soaps, detergents and shampoos strip moisture from your skin because they are formulated to remove oil.
Other skin conditions. People with skin conditions such as atopic dermatitis (eczema) or psoriasis are more likely to have dry skin.
Medical treatments. Some people develop dry, thick skin after undergoing treatment for cancer, receiving dialysis or taking certain medications.
Aging. As people age, the skin thins and produces less of the oils needed for the skin to retain water.
Risk Factors for Dry skin:
Anyone can develop dry skin. But you're more likely to develop the condition if you:
Are over 40, as the skin's ability to retain moisture diminishes with age
Live in cold, windy conditions or low-humidity climates
Have a job that requires you to immerse your hands in water, such as nursing or hairstyling
Use your hands to work with cement, clay or soil
Swim frequently in chlorinated pools
Have certain diseases or conditions, such as hypothyroidism, diabetes or malnutrition
Complications for Dry skin:
Dry skin is usually harmless. But when it's not cared for, dry skin may lead to:
Atopic dermatitis (eczema). If you're prone to develop this condition, excessive dryness can lead to activation of the disease, causing a rash and cracking skin.
Infections. Dry skin may crack, allowing bacteria to enter, causing infections.
These complications are most likely to occur when your skin's protective mechanisms are severely compromised. For example, severely dry skin can cause deep cracks or fissures, which can open and bleed, providing an avenue for invading bacteria.
Preventions for Dry skin
Try these tips to help your skin retain moisture:
Moisturize. Moisturizer seals in water to help keep your skin's protective barrier healthy. Use moisturizer throughout the day, especially on the hands. And before going outdoors, use a moisturizer that contains sunblock or a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Limit water exposure. Keep bath and shower time to 10 minutes or less. Use warm, not hot, water. Rinse and pat dry. Try to bathe no more than once a day.
Use a gentle cleanser or allergen-free soap. Try a nonsoap cleansing cream or shower gel. Or use fragrance-free moisturizing soap with no alcohol or allergy-causing substances (hypoallergenic soap), especially if you handwash often. Rinse thoroughly and pat dry. Apply a moisturizing cream while your skin is still damp.
Shave with care. Shaving can be drying. If you shave, use a lubricating agent before you start. Shave in the direction of hair growth, unless that irritates your skin. Use a sharp blade and rinse it with warm water after each stroke. When done, apply moisturizer.
Cover as much skin as possible in cold or windy weather. Harsh weather can be especially drying to skin. Scarves, hats, and gloves or mittens help protect your skin when you're outdoors.
Wear gloves. Protect your hands with suitable gloves when gardening, using harsh cleansers and doing other skin-drying activities.
Rinse and moisturize after swimming. This is especially important if you've been swimming in a heavily chlorinated pool.
Drink when you're thirsty. Drink noncaffeinated beverages each day to help keep all your body's tissues, including your skin, well hydrated.
Bathe babies with care. For babies, using a cleanser every 1-2 weeks for bathing usually is enough. Otherwise, bathe them in just water. However, clean their diaper area with each diaper change. Apply a thin layer of petroleum jelly (Vaseline, Aquaphor, others) while the skin is still damp.
Condition name:Dry socket
Overview of Dry socket:
Dry socket is a painful dental condition that sometimes happens after you have a tooth removed. Having a tooth removed is called an extraction. Dry socket happens when a blood clot at the site where the tooth was removed does not form, comes out or dissolves before the wound has healed.
Usually a blood clot forms at the site where a tooth was removed. This blood clot is a protective layer over the underlying bone and nerve endings in the empty tooth socket. Also, the clot contains cells that are needed for proper healing of the site.
Intense pain happens when the underlying bone and nerves are exposed. Pain occurs in the socket and along the nerves to the side of the face. The socket becomes swollen and irritated. It may fill with bits of food, making the pain worse. If you get a dry socket, the pain usually begins 1 to 3 days after the tooth removal.
Dry socket is the most common complication following tooth removals, such as the removal of third molars, also called wisdom teeth. Medicine you can buy without a prescription usually will not be enough to treat dry socket pain. Your dentist or oral surgeon can offer treatments to relieve your pain.
Home Remedies for Dry socket:
You can help promote healing and reduce symptoms during treatment of dry socket by following instructions for self-care. You'll likely be told to:
Take pain medicines as prescribed.
Do not smoke or use tobacco products.
Drink plenty of clear liquids. This also may prevent nausea caused by some pain medicines.
Rinse your mouth gently with warm salt water several times a day.
Brush your teeth gently around the dry socket area.
Be careful with eating or drinking. To prevent the clot from coming out, avoid carbonated beverages and do not use a straw.
Symptoms for Dry socket :
Symptoms of dry socket may include:
Severe pain within a few days after removing a tooth.
Loss of part or all of the blood clot at the tooth removal site. The socket may look empty.
Bone that you can see in the socket.
Pain that spreads from the socket to your ear, eye, temple or neck on the same side of your face as the tooth removal.
Bad breath or a foul odor coming from your mouth.
Bad taste in your mouth.
Causes for Dry socket :
The exact cause of dry socket is still being studied. Researchers think that certain issues may be involved, such as:
Bacteria that gets into the socket.
Injury at the surgical site when tooth removal is difficult. This can happen with irregular wisdom tooth development or position, called an impacted wisdom tooth.
Risk Factors for Dry socket:
Factors that can increase your risk of developing dry socket include:
Smoking and tobacco use. Chemicals in cigarettes or other forms of tobacco may prevent or slow healing. These chemicals can get into the wound site. Also, the act of sucking on a cigarette may cause the blood clot to come out too early.
Birth control pills. High estrogen levels from birth control pills may cause problems with healing and increase the risk of dry socket.
Improper at-home care. Not following home-care instructions and having poor mouth care may increase the risk of dry socket.
Tooth or gum infection. Current or previous infections around the area where the tooth was removed increase the risk of dry socket.
Complications for Dry socket:
Even though a dry socket can be painful, it rarely causes an infection or serious complications. But healing in the socket may be delayed. Pain may last longer than usual after a tooth removal. Dry socket also may lead to an infection in the socket.
There are no preventive measures available for Dry socket in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)
Overview of Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS):
Ductal carcinoma in situ is a very early form of breast cancer. In ductal carcinoma in situ, the cancer cells are confined inside a milk duct in the breast. The cancer cells haven't spread into the breast tissue. Ductal carcinoma in situ is often shortened to DCIS. It's sometimes called noninvasive, preinvasive or stage 0 breast cancer.
DCIS is usually found during a mammogram done as part of breast cancer screening or to investigate a breast lump. DCIS has a low risk of spreading and becoming life-threatening. However, it does require an evaluation and a consideration of treatment options.
Treatment for DCIS often involves surgery. Other treatments may combine surgery with radiation therapy or hormone therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) :
Ductal carcinoma in situ doesn't typically cause symptoms. This early form of breast cancer also is called DCIS.
DCIS can sometimes cause symptoms such as:
A breast lump.
Bloody nipple discharge.
DCIS is usually found on a mammogram. It appears as tiny flecks of calcium in the breast tissue. These are calcium deposits, often referred to as calcifications.
Causes for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) :
It's not clear what causes ductal carcinoma in situ, also called DCIS.
This early form of breast cancer happens when cells inside a breast duct develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
In DCIS, the cancer cells don't yet have the ability to break out of the breast duct and spread into the breast tissue.
Healthcare professionals don't know exactly what causes the changes in the cells that leads to DCIS. Factors that may play a part include lifestyle, environment and DNA changes that run in families.
Risk Factors for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS):
Several factors may increase the risk of ductal carcinoma in situ, also called DCIS. DCIS is an early form of breast cancer. Risk factors for breast cancer may include:
A family history of breast cancer. If a parent, sibling or child had breast cancer, your risk of breast cancer is increased. The risk is higher if your family has a history of getting breast cancer at a young age. The risk also is higher if you have multiple family members with breast cancer. Still, most people diagnosed with breast cancer don't have a family history of the disease.
A personal history of breast cancer. If you've had cancer in one breast, you have an increased risk of getting cancer in the other breast.
A personal history of breast conditions. Certain breast conditions are a sign of a higher risk of breast cancer. These conditions include lobular carcinoma in situ, also called LCIS, and atypical hyperplasia of the breast. If you've had a breast biopsy that found one of these conditions, you have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Beginning your period at a younger age. Beginning your period before age 12 increases the risk of breast cancer.
Beginning menopause at an older age. Beginning menopause after age 55 increases the risk of breast cancer.
Being female. Women are much more likely than men are to get breast cancer. Everyone is born with some breast tissue, so anyone can get breast cancer.
Dense breast tissue. Breast tissue is made up of fatty tissue and dense tissue. Dense tissue is made of milk glands, milk ducts and fibrous tissue. If you have dense breasts, you have more dense tissue than fatty tissue in your breasts. Having dense breasts can make it harder to detect breast cancer on a mammogram. If a mammogram showed that you have dense breasts, your risk of breast cancer is increased. Talk with your healthcare team about other tests you might have in addition to mammograms to look for breast cancer.
Drinking alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer.
Having your first child at an older age. Giving birth to your first child after age 30 may increase the risk of breast cancer.
Having never been pregnant. Having been pregnant one or more times lowers the risk of breast cancer. Never having been pregnant increases the risk.
Increasing age. The risk of breast cancer goes up as you get older.
Inherited DNA changes that increase cancer risk. Certain DNA changes that increase the risk of breast cancer can be passed from parents to children. The most well-known changes are called BRCA1 and BRCA2. These changes can greatly increase your risk of breast cancer and other cancers, but not everyone with these DNA changes gets cancer.
Menopausal hormone therapy. Taking certain hormone therapy medicines to control the symptoms of menopause may increase the risk of breast cancer. The risk is linked to hormone therapy medicines that combine estrogen and progesterone. The risk goes down when you stop taking these medicines.
Obesity. People with obesity have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Radiation exposure. If you received radiation treatments to your chest as a child or young adult, your risk of breast cancer is higher.
There are no Complications available for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in the knowledge basePreventions for Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS)
Making changes in your daily life may help lower your risk of ductal carcinoma in situ. This early form of breast cancer also is called DCIS. To lower your risk of breast cancer, try to:
Condition name:Dupuytren contracture
Overview of Dupuytren contracture:
Dupuytren contracture is a condition that causes one or more fingers to bend toward the palm of the hand. The affected fingers can't straighten completely.
Knots of tissue form under the skin. They eventually create a thick cord that can pull the fingers into a bent position. The condition gradually gets worse with time.
Dupuytren contracture most often affects the two fingers farthest from the thumb. This can complicate everyday activities such as placing your hands in your pockets, putting on gloves or shaking hands.
There's no cure for Dupuytren contracture. Treatments can relieve symptoms and slow how quickly the condition gets worse.
Home Remedies for Dupuytren contracture:
If you have mild Dupuytren contracture, you can protect your hands by:
Avoiding a tight grip on tools by building up the handles with pipe insulation or cushion tape.
Using gloves with heavy padding during heavy grasping tasks.
Symptoms for Dupuytren contracture :
Dupuytren contracture gets worse slowly, over years. The condition begins with a firm lump in the palm of the hand. This lump can be painful or painless.
Over time, the lump can extend into a hard cord under the skin and up into the finger. This cord tightens and pulls the finger toward the palm, sometimes severely.
Dupuytren contracture most commonly affects the two fingers farthest from the thumb. The condition often occurs in both hands.
Causes for Dupuytren contracture :
The cause of Dupuytren contracture is unknown. The condition tends to run in families. It’s more common in men than in women.
Risk Factors for Dupuytren contracture:
Risk factors for Dupuytren contracture include:
Age. Dupuytren contracture occurs most commonly after the age of 50.
Sex. Men are much more likely to develop Dupuytren than are women. In men, symptoms may be worse and progress more quickly.
Ancestry. People of Northern European descent are at higher risk of the disease.
Family history. Dupuytren contracture often runs in families.
Occupation. Some studies show a connection between Dupuytren contracture and workers who use vibrating tools.
Diabetes. People with diabetes have an increased risk of Dupuytren contracture.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Smoking tobacco and drinking alcohol both increase the risk of Dupuytren contracture.
There are no Complications available for Dupuytren contracture in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Dupuytren contracture in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dural arteriovenous fistulas
Overview of Dural arteriovenous fistulas:
Dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) are irregular connections between arteries and veins. They occur in the tough covering over the brain or spinal cord, known as the dura mater. The irregular passageways between arteries and veins are called arteriovenous fistulas, which can lead to bleeding in the brain or other serious symptoms.
Dural AVFs are rare. They tend to occur between ages 50 and 60. They are not typically genetic, so children are not more likely to develop a dAVF if their parent has one.
Although some dAVFs stem from known causes, most often the cause is not known. It's thought that dAVFs involving large brain veins form when one of the brain's venous sinuses narrows or becomes blocked. Venous sinuses are channels that route circulated blood from the brain back to the heart.
Treatment for dAVF usually involves an endovascular procedure or stereotactic radiosurgery to block the blood flow to the dAVF. Or surgery may be needed to disconnect or remove the dAVF.
There are no home remedies available for Dural arteriovenous fistulas in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dural arteriovenous fistulas :
Some people with dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) may not have symptoms. When symptoms occur, they may be characterized as benign or aggressive. An aggressive dAVF has more-serious symptoms.
Aggressive dAVF symptoms can result from bleeding in the brain, known as intracerebral hemorrhage. Bleeding in the brain often causes a sudden headache. It also may cause other symptoms based on the location and size of the hemorrhage.
Aggressive symptoms also may result from nonhemorrhagic neurological deficits (NHNDs), which can include seizures or changes in mental abilities. These symptoms usually develop more gradually, over days to weeks. Symptoms are typically related to the area of the brain affected.
Aggressive symptoms can include:
Sudden headache.
Trouble walking and falls.
Seizures.
Speech or language issues.
Facial pain.
Dementia.
Slowed movement, stiffness and tremor, known as parkinsonism.
Trouble with coordination.
Burning or prickling sensations.
Weakness.
Lack of interest, known as apathy.
Failure to thrive.
Symptoms related to increased pressure, such as headaches, nausea and vomiting.
Other dAVF symptoms can include hearing issues. People with hearing symptoms may hear a rhythmic sound in the ear that occurs with the heartbeat, known as pulsatile tinnitus. Symptoms also may include trouble with vision, such as:
Vision changes.
Eye bulge.
Swelling in the eye lining.
Paralysis of a muscle in or around the eye.
Rarely, dementia may occur due to increased pressure in the blood vessels in the brain.
Causes for Dural arteriovenous fistulas :
Most dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) have no clear origin. But some result from a traumatic head injury, infection, previous brain surgery, blood clots in deep veins or tumors.
Most experts think that dAVFs involving larger brain veins occur from the narrowing or blockage of one of the brain's venous sinuses. The venous sinuses are channels in the brain that route circulated blood from the brain back to the heart.
Risk Factors for Dural arteriovenous fistulas:
Risk factors of dural arteriovenous fistulas (dAVFs) include being inclined to blood clots in the vein, known as vein thrombosis. Changes in the way the blood clots may increase the risk of a blockage or narrowing of the venous sinuses.
Most often, dAVFs affect people between ages 50 and 60. But they can occur in people at younger ages, including in children.
Research has found that noncancerous tumors found in the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord may be associated with dAVFs.
There are no Complications available for Dural arteriovenous fistulas in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Dural arteriovenous fistulas in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dwarfism
Overview of Dwarfism:
Dwarfism is short stature that results from a genetic or medical condition. Stature is the height of a person in a standing position. Dwarfism generally is defined as an adult height of 4 feet, 10 inches (147 cm) or less. The average adult height among people with dwarfism is 4 feet, 1 inch (125 cm) for women and 4 feet, 4 inches (132 cm) for men.
Many medical conditions cause dwarfism. In general, dwarfism is divided into two broad categories:
Disproportionate dwarfism. This is when some parts of the body are small, and others are of average or above-average size. Conditions causing this category of dwarfism get in the way of bone development.
Proportionate dwarfism. This is when all parts of the body are small to the same degree and appear like a body of average stature. Medical conditions present at birth or that occur in early childhood limit overall growth and development.
Some people prefer the term "short stature" or "little people" rather than "dwarf" or "dwarfism." It's important to be sensitive to the preference of someone who has this condition. Short stature conditions don't include familial short stature — short height that's thought of as a typical variation with typical bone development.
Home Remedies for Dwarfism:
Talk with your pediatrician or a specialist about at-home care. Issues critical for children with disproportionate dwarfism include:
Car seats. Use an infant car seat with firm back and neck supports. Continue using a car seat in the rear-facing direction to the highest weight and height possible and beyond the recommended age limit.
Infant carriers and play equipment. Stay away from infant devices â€” such as swings, umbrella strollers, carrying slings, jumper seats and backpack carriers â€” that don't support the neck or that curve the back into a C shape.
Ample head and neck support. Support the head and neck when your child is seated. Hold the head, neck and upper back in a safe and stable position. Padding can help provide the right position and support.
Complications. Watch your child for signs of complications, such as ear infections or sleep apnea.
Posture. Promote good posture by providing a pillow for the lower back and a footstool when your child is sitting.
Healthy diet. Begin healthy eating habits early to stay away from problems with weight gain later.
Healthy activities. Urge participation in recreational activities that are right for your child as recommended by the healthcare team, such as swimming or bicycling. But stay away from sports that involve collision or impact, such as football, wrestling, diving or gymnastics.
Symptoms for Dwarfism :
Symptoms — other than short stature — vary greatly across the range of dwarfism conditions.
Causes for Dwarfism :
Most often dwarfism is caused by gene changes, also called genetic variants. In many children, it's due to a random change in a child's gene. But dwarfism also can be inherited due to a genetic variant in one or both parents. Other causes can include low levels of hormones and poor nutrition. Sometimes the cause of dwarfism is not known.
Risk Factors for Dwarfism:
Risk factors depend on the type of dwarfism. In many cases, a gene change related to dwarfism happens at random and is not passed from parent to child. If one or both parents have dwarfism, the risk of having a child with dwarfism rises.
If you want to become pregnant and need to understand the chances of your child having dwarfism, talk with your healthcare professional about getting genetic testing. Also ask about other risk factors.
Complications for Dwarfism:
Complications of dwarfism-related conditions can vary greatly, but some complications are common to several conditions.
There are no preventive measures available for Dwarfism in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dysarthria
Overview of Dysarthria:
Dysarthria happens when the muscles used for speech are weak or are hard to control. Dysarthria often causes slurred or slow speech that can be difficult to understand.
Common causes of dysarthria include conditions that affect the nervous system or that cause facial paralysis. These conditions may cause tongue or throat muscle weakness. Certain medicines also can cause dysarthria.
Treating the underlying cause of dysarthria may improve your speech. You also may need speech therapy. For dysarthria caused by prescription medicines, changing or stopping the medicines may help.
There are no home remedies available for Dysarthria in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dysarthria :
Symptoms of dysarthria depend on the underlying cause and the type of dysarthria.
Symptoms may include:
Slurred speech.
Slow speech.
Not being able to speak louder than a whisper or speaking too loudly.
Rapid speech that is difficult to understand.
Nasal, raspy or strained voice.
Uneven speech rhythm.
Uneven speech volume.
Monotone speech.
Trouble moving your tongue or facial muscles.
Causes for Dysarthria :
Dysarthria can be caused by conditions that make it hard to move the muscles in the mouth, face or upper respiratory system. These muscles control speech.
Conditions that may lead to dysarthria include:
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease.
Brain injury.
Brain tumor.
Cerebral palsy.
Guillain-Barre syndrome.
Head injury.
Huntington's disease.
Lyme disease.
Multiple sclerosis.
Muscular dystrophy.
Myasthenia gravis.
Parkinson's disease.
Stroke.
Wilson's disease.
Some medicines also can cause dysarthria. These may include certain sedatives and seizure medicines.
Risk Factors for Dysarthria:
Dysarthria risk factors include having a neurological condition that affects the muscles that control speech.
Complications for Dysarthria:
Complications of dysarthria may come from having trouble with communication. Complications may include:
Trouble socializing. Communication problems may affect your relationships with family and friends. These problems also may make social situations challenging.
Depression. In some people, dysarthria may lead to social isolation and depression.
There are no preventive measures available for Dysarthria in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dyshidrosis
Overview of Dyshidrosis:
Dyshidrosis is a skin condition that causes small, fluid-filled blisters to form on the palms of the hands and sides of the fingers. Sometimes the bottoms of the feet are affected too.
The itchy blisters last a few weeks and often come back.
Treatment for dyshidrosis most often includes prescription steroid skin creams or ointments. Your doctor or other health care provider may suggest a different treatment, such as light therapy or medicine taken by mouth or injection. The right treatment depends on how severe your symptoms are.
Dyshidrosis is also called dyshidrotic eczema and pompholyx.
Home Remedies for Dyshidrosis:
Home treatment might include:
Applying a moist cloth. A wet, cool cloth may help reduce itching.
Taking anti-itch drugs. Antihistamine medicine that you can get at a store without a prescription may help relieve itching. Examples are diphenhydramine and loratadine (Alavert, Claritin).
Symptoms for Dyshidrosis :
Dyshidrosis symptoms include painful, itchy and fluid-filled blisters on the sides of the fingers, the palms of the hands and the bottoms of the feet. The blisters are small — about the width of a standard pencil lead. They are grouped in clusters and can look like tapioca.
With severe disease, the small blisters can merge to form larger blisters. Skin affected by dyshidrosis can be painful and very itchy. After a few weeks, the blisters dry and flake off.
Dyshidrosis tends to come back regularly for months or years.
Causes for Dyshidrosis :
The cause of dyshidrosis isn't known. It tends to happen in people who have a skin condition called atopic dermatitis (eczema) and allergic conditions, such as hay fever or glove allergy. Dyshidrosis isn't contagious.
Risk Factors for Dyshidrosis:
Risk factors for dyshidrosis include:
Stress. Dyshidrosis appears to be more common during times of emotional or physical stress.
Exposure to certain metals. These include cobalt and nickel — often in an industrial setting.
Sensitive skin. People who develop a rash after contact with certain irritants are more likely to form the blisters of dyshidrosis.
Atopic dermatitis. Some people with atopic dermatitis may have dyshidrosis.
Complications for Dyshidrosis:
For most people with dyshidrosis, it's just an itchy inconvenience. For others, the pain and itching may limit the use of their hands or feet. Intense scratching can increase the risk of a bacterial infection of the affected skin.
After healing, you may notice skin color changes in the affected area. This is called postinflammatory hyperpigmentation. It's more likely to occur in people with brown or Black skin. This complication most often goes away in time without treatment.
Preventions for Dyshidrosis
There's no way to prevent dyshidrosis. It may help to manage stress and avoid exposure to metal salts, such as cobalt and nickel.
Good skin care practices may help protect the skin as well. These include:
Using mild, nonsoap cleansers and lukewarm water to wash your hands.
Drying your hands well.
Applying moisturizer at least twice a day.
Wearing gloves. But if you notice that wearing gloves worsens the rash, you may be sensitive to gloves. Let your doctor know about this. Try cotton gloves to prevent irritation. For wet activities, you might try wearing cotton gloves under waterproof gloves.
Condition name:Dyslexia
Overview of Dyslexia:
Dyslexia is a learning disorder that involves difficulty reading due to problems identifying speech sounds and learning how they relate to letters and words (decoding). Also called a reading disability, dyslexia is a result of individual differences in areas of the brain that process language.
Dyslexia is not due to problems with intelligence, hearing or vision. Most children with dyslexia can succeed in school with tutoring or a specialized education program. Emotional support also plays an important role.
Though there's no cure for dyslexia, early assessment and intervention result in the best outcome. Sometimes dyslexia goes undiagnosed for years and isn't recognized until adulthood, but it's never too late to seek help.
There are no home remedies available for Dyslexia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Dyslexia :
Signs of dyslexia can be difficult to recognize before your child enters school, but some early clues may indicate a problem. Once your child reaches school age, your child's teacher may be the first to notice a problem. Severity varies, but the condition often becomes apparent as a child starts learning to read.
Causes for Dyslexia :
Dyslexia results from individual differences in the parts of the brain that enable reading. It tends to run in families. Dyslexia appears to be linked to certain genes that affect how the brain processes reading and language.
Risk Factors for Dyslexia:
A family history of dyslexia or other reading or learning disabilities increases the risk of having dyslexia.
Complications for Dyslexia:
Dyslexia can lead to several problems, including:
Trouble learning. Because reading is a skill basic to most other school subjects, a child with dyslexia is at a disadvantage in most classes and may have trouble keeping up with peers.
Social problems. Left untreated, dyslexia may lead to low self-esteem, behavior problems, anxiety, aggression, and withdrawal from friends, parents and teachers.
Problems as adults. The inability to read and comprehend can prevent children from reaching their potential as they grow up. This can have negative long-term educational, social and economic impacts.
Children who have dyslexia are at increased risk of having attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and vice versa. ADHD can cause difficulty keeping attention. It can also cause hyperactivity and impulsive behavior, which can make dyslexia harder to treat.
There are no preventive measures available for Dyslexia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Dysphagia
Overview of Dysphagia:
Dysphagia is a medical term for difficulty swallowing. Dysphagia can be a painful condition. In some cases, swallowing is impossible.
Occasional difficulty swallowing, such as when you eat too fast or don't chew your food well enough, usually isn't cause for concern. But ongoing dysphagia can be a serious medical condition that needs treatment.
Dysphagia can happen at any age, but it's more common in older adults. The causes of swallowing problems vary, and treatment depends on the cause.
Home Remedies for Dysphagia:
If you have trouble swallowing, be sure to see a healthcare professional. You also may try these approaches to help ease symptoms:
Changing your eating habits. Try eating smaller, more frequent meals. Cut your food into smaller pieces, chew food thoroughly and eat more slowly. If you have difficulty swallowing liquids, there are products you can buy to thicken liquids.
Trying foods with different textures to see if some cause you more trouble. Thin liquids, such as coffee and juice, are a problem for some people, and sticky foods, such as peanut butter or caramel, can make swallowing difficult. Avoid foods that cause you trouble.
Limiting alcohol and caffeine. These can dry your mouth and throat, making swallowing more difficult.
Symptoms for Dysphagia :
Symptoms associated with dysphagia can include:
Pain while swallowing.
Not being able to swallow.
Feeling as if food is stuck in the throat or chest or behind the breastbone.
Drooling.
Hoarseness.
Food coming back up, called regurgitation.
Frequent heartburn.
Food or stomach acid backing up into the throat.
Weight loss.
Coughing or gagging when swallowing.
Causes for Dysphagia :
Swallowing is complex, involving many muscles and nerves. Any condition that weakens or damages these muscles and nerves or causes narrowing of the back of the throat or esophagus can cause dysphagia.
Dysphagia generally falls into one of the following categories.
Risk Factors for Dysphagia:
The following are risk factors for dysphagia:
Aging. Older adults are at higher risk of swallowing difficulties. This is due to natural aging and wear and tear on the esophagus as well as a greater risk of certain conditions, such as stroke or Parkinson's disease. But dysphagia isn't considered a typical sign of aging.
Certain health conditions. People with certain neurological or nervous system disorders are more likely to have difficulty swallowing.
Complications for Dysphagia:
Difficulty swallowing can lead to:
Malnutrition, weight loss and dehydration. Dysphagia can make it difficult to take in enough food and fluids.
Aspiration pneumonia. Food or liquid entering the airway during attempts to swallow can cause aspiration pneumonia as a result of the food introducing bacteria into the lungs.
Choking. Food stuck in the throat can cause choking. If food completely blocks the airway and no one intervenes with a successful Heimlich maneuver, death can occur.
Preventions for Dysphagia
Although swallowing difficulties can't be prevented, you can reduce your risk of occasional difficulty swallowing by eating slowly and chewing your food well. However, if you have symptoms of dysphagia, see a healthcare professional.
If you have GERD, see a healthcare professional for treatment.
Condition name:Dystonia
Overview of Dystonia:
Dystonia is a movement disorder that causes the muscles to contract. This can cause twisting motions or other movements that happen repeatedly and that aren't under the person's control.
When the condition affects one part of the body, it's called focal dystonia. When it affects two or more areas of the body next to each other, it's called segmental dystonia. When dystonia affects all parts of the body, it's known as general dystonia. The muscle spasms can range from mild to more serious. They may be painful, and they can affect the person's ability to complete daily tasks.
There's no cure for dystonia, but medicines and therapy can improve symptoms. Surgery is sometimes used to disable or regulate nerves or certain brain regions in people with serious dystonia.
Home Remedies for Dystonia:
Dystonia has no cure, but you can do several things to manage symptoms:
Sensory tricks to reduce spasms. Touching certain parts of your body may cause spasms to stop temporarily.
Heat or cold. Applying heat or cold can help ease muscle pain.
Stress management. Learn effective coping skills to manage stress, such as deep breathing, social support and positive self-talk.
Symptoms for Dystonia :
Dystonia affects different people in different ways. Muscle spasms might:
Begin in a single area, such as your leg, neck or arm. Focal dystonia that begins after age 21 usually starts in the neck, arm or face. Although it tends to remain in the single area, it may spread to a neighboring area of the body.
Occur during a specific action, such as writing by hand.
Worsen with stress, fatigue or anxiety.
Become more noticeable over time.
Areas of the body that can be affected include:
Neck. When the neck muscles are involved, it's called cervical dystonia. Contractions cause the head to twist and turn to one side. Or the head may pull forward or backward. Cervical dystonia sometimes causes pain.
Eyelids. When muscles controlling eye blinks are involved, it's called blepharospasm. Rapid blinking or muscle spasms that cause your eyes to close make it hard to see. The muscle spasms usually aren't painful. They might increase in bright light or while reading, watching TV or interacting with people. They also might increase under stress. The eyes might feel dry, gritty or sensitive to light.
Jaw or tongue. When the muscles of the jaw and tongue are affected, it's called oromandibular dystonia. It can cause slurred speech, drooling, and trouble chewing or swallowing. This type of dystonia can be painful. It often occurs with cervical dystonia or blepharospasm.
Voice box and vocal cords. When the voice box or vocal cords are affected, it's called laryngeal dystonia. It can cause a strained or whispering voice.
Hand and forearm. Some types of dystonia occur only while doing an activity over and over, such as writing or playing a musical instrument. These are known as writer's dystonia and musician's dystonia. Symptoms usually don't happen when the arm is at rest.
Causes for Dystonia :
The exact cause of dystonia isn't known. But it might involve changes in communication between nerve cells in several regions of the brain. Some forms of dystonia are passed down in families.
Dystonia also can be a symptom of another disease or condition, including:
Parkinson's disease.
Huntington's disease.
Wilson's disease.
Traumatic brain injury.
Birth injury.
Stroke.
Brain tumor or certain conditions that develop in some people with cancer, known as paraneoplastic syndromes.
Lack of oxygen or carbon monoxide poisoning.
Infections, such as tuberculosis or encephalitis.
Reactions to certain medicines or heavy metal poisoning.
Risk Factors for Dystonia:
Your risk for dystonia increases if you have a family history of the movement disorder. Women also have a higher risk. They have dystonia twice as often as men do.
Another risk factor for dystonia is having a condition that causes dystonia, such as Parkinson's disease or Huntington's disease.
Complications for Dystonia:
Depending on the type of dystonia, complications can include:
Physical disabilities that affect daily activities or specific tasks.
Trouble with vision.
Trouble moving the jaw, swallowing or speaking.
Pain and fatigue from the constant contraction of your muscles.
Depression, anxiety and social withdrawal.
There are no preventive measures available for Dystonia in the knowledge baseCondition name:E. coli
Overview of E. coli:
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of healthy people and animals. Most types of E. coli are harmless or cause relatively brief diarrhea. But a few strains, such as E. coli O157:H7, can cause severe stomach cramps, bloody diarrhea and vomiting.
You may be exposed to E. coli from contaminated water or food — especially raw vegetables and undercooked ground beef. Healthy adults usually recover from infection with E. coli O157:H7 within a week. Young children and older adults have a greater risk of developing a life-threatening form of kidney failure.
Home Remedies for E. coli:
Follow these tips to prevent dehydration and reduce symptoms while you recover:
Drink clear liquids. Drink plenty of clear liquids, including water, clear sodas and broths, gelatin, and juices. Avoid apple and pear juices, caffeine, and alcohol.
Avoid certain foods. Dairy products, fatty foods, high-fiber foods or highly seasoned foods can make symptoms worse.
Eat meals. When you start feeling better, you can return to your normal diet.
Symptoms for E. coli :
Signs and symptoms of E. coli O157:H7 infection usually begin three or four days after exposure to the bacteria. But you may become ill as soon as one day after exposure to more than a week later. Signs and symptoms include:
Diarrhea, which may range from mild and watery to severe and bloody
Stomach cramping, pain or tenderness
Nausea and vomiting, in some people
Causes for E. coli :
Only a few strains of E. coli trigger diarrhea. The E. coli O157:H7 strain belongs to a group of E. coli that produces a powerful toxin that damages the lining of the small intestine. This can cause bloody diarrhea. You develop an E. coli infection when you ingest this strain of bacteria.
Unlike many other disease-causing bacteria, E. coli can cause an infection even if you ingest only small amounts. Because of this, you can be sickened by E. coli from eating a slightly undercooked hamburger or from swallowing a mouthful of contaminated pool water.
Potential sources of exposure include contaminated food or water and person-to-person contact.
Risk Factors for E. coli:
E. coli can affect anyone who is exposed to the bacteria. But some people are more likely to develop problems than are others. Risk factors include:
Age. Young children and older adults are at higher risk of experiencing illness caused by E. coli and more-serious complications from the infection.
Weakened immune systems. People who have weakened immune systems — from AIDS or from drugs to treat cancer or prevent the rejection of organ transplants — are more likely to become ill from ingesting E. coli.
Eating certain types of food. Riskier foods include undercooked hamburger; unpasteurized milk, apple juice or cider; and soft cheeses made from raw milk.
Time of year. Though it's not clear why, the majority of E. coli infections in the U.S. occur from June through September.
Decreased stomach acid levels. Stomach acid offers some protection against E. coli. If you take medications to reduce stomach acid, such as esomeprazole (Nexium), pantoprazole (Protonix), lansoprazole (Prevacid) and omeprazole (Prilosec), you may increase your risk of an E. coli infection.
Complications for E. coli:
Most healthy adults recover from E. coli illness within a week. Some people — particularly young children and older adults — may develop a life-threatening form of kidney failure called hemolytic uremic syndrome.
Preventions for E. coli
No vaccine or medication can protect you from E. coli-based illness, though researchers are investigating potential vaccines. To reduce your chance of being exposed to E. coli, avoid swallowing water from lakes or pools, wash your hands often, avoid risky foods, and watch out for cross-contamination.
Condition name:Eating disorders
Overview of Eating disorders:
Eating disorders are serious health conditions that affect both your physical and mental health. These conditions include problems in how you think about food, eating, weight and shape, and in your eating behaviors. These symptoms can affect your health, your emotions and your ability to function in important areas of life.
If not treated effectively, eating disorders can become long-term problems and, in some cases, can cause death. The most common eating disorders are anorexia, bulimia and binge-eating disorder.
Most eating disorders involve focusing too much on weight, body shape and food. This can lead to dangerous eating behaviors. These behaviors can seriously affect the ability to get the nutrition your body needs. Eating disorders can harm the heart, digestive system, bones, teeth and mouth. They can lead to other diseases. They're also linked with depression, anxiety, self-harm, and suicidal thoughts and behaviors.
With proper treatment, you can return to healthier eating habits and learn healthier ways to think about food and your body. You also may be able to reverse or reduce serious problems caused by the eating disorder.
Home Remedies for Eating disorders:
To improve the chances of success in overcoming an eating disorder:
Find a mental health provider with expertise in eating disorders. Treatment is most effective when delivered by a provider with specialty training in eating disorders. Look for a provider with experience in treatments shown to be effective, such as FBT and CBT.
Follow your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions and try not to stray from meal plans. Follow your health care provider's instructions on physical activity and exercise.
Talk to your health care provider about appropriate vitamin and mineral supplements. If you're not eating well, chances are your body isn't getting all the nutrients it needs, such as vitamin D or iron. For healthy people, health care providers commonly recommend getting most vitamins and minerals from food.
Resist urges to weigh yourself. And don't check yourself in the mirror often. This may simply increase your drive to maintain habits that aren't healthy.
Don't isolate yourself from others. Caring family members and friends who have your best interests at heart want to see you get healthy.
Symptoms for Eating disorders :
Symptoms vary, depending on the type of eating disorder. Anorexia, bulimia and binge-eating disorder are the most common eating disorders. People with eating disorders can have all different body types and sizes.
Causes for Eating disorders :
The exact cause of eating disorders is not known. As with other mental health conditions, there may be different causes, such as:
Genetics. Some people may have genes that increase their risk of developing eating disorders.
Biology. Biological factors, such as changes in brain chemicals, may play a role in eating disorders.
Risk Factors for Eating disorders:
Anyone can develop an eating disorder. Eating disorders often start in the teen and young adult years. But they can occur at any age.
Certain factors may increase the risk of developing an eating disorder, including:
Family history. Eating disorders are more likely to occur in people who have parents or siblings who've had an eating disorder.
Other mental health issues. Trauma, anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and other mental health issues can increase the likelihood of an eating disorder.
Dieting and starvation. Frequent dieting is a risk factor for an eating disorder, especially with weight that is constantly going up and down when getting on and off new diets. There is strong evidence that many of the symptoms of an eating disorder are symptoms of starvation. Starvation affects the brain and can lead to mood changes, rigid thinking, anxiety and reduced appetite. This may cause severely limited eating or problem eating behaviors to continue and make it difficult to return to healthy eating habits.
A history of weight bullying. People who have been teased or bullied for their weight are more likely to develop problems with eating and eating disorders. This includes people who have been made to feel ashamed of their weight by peers, health care professionals, coaches, teachers or family members.
Stress. Whether it's heading off to college, moving, landing a new job, or a family or relationship issue, change can bring stress. And stress may increase the risk of an eating disorder.
Complications for Eating disorders:
Eating disorders cause a wide variety of complications, some of them life-threatening. The more severe or long lasting the eating disorder, the more likely it is that serious complications may occur. These may include:
Serious health problems.
Depression and anxiety.
Suicidal thoughts or behavior.
Problems with growth and development.
Social and relationship problems.
Substance use disorders.
Work and school issues.
Death.
Preventions for Eating disorders
There's no sure way to prevent eating disorders, but you can take steps to develop healthy eating habits. If you have a child, you can help your child lower the risk of developing eating disorders.
Condition name:Ebstein anomaly
Overview of Ebstein anomaly:
Ebstein anomaly is a rare heart problem that's present at birth. That means it's a congenital heart defect.
In this condition, the valve that separates the top and bottom right heart chambers does not form correctly. This valve is called the tricuspid valve. As a result, the valve does not close as it should. Blood moves backward from the bottom to top chamber, making it harder for the heart to work.
In people with Ebstein anomaly, the heart can grow larger. The condition can lead to heart failure.
Treatment of Ebstein anomaly depends on the symptoms. Some people without symptoms only need regular health checkups. Others may need medicines and surgery.
Home Remedies for Ebstein anomaly:
Some people who are born with a heart problem may need to limit exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Ask your health care team which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child.
Symptoms for Ebstein anomaly :
Some babies born with Ebstein anomaly have few or no symptoms. Others have a tricuspid valve that leaks severely and causes more-noticeable problems. Sometimes symptoms don't occur until later in life.
Symptoms of Ebstein anomaly may include:
Blue or gray lips or fingernails. Depending on skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fatigue.
Feeling of a pounding or rapid heartbeat or irregular heartbeats.
Shortness of breath, especially with activity.
Causes for Ebstein anomaly :
Ebstein anomaly is a heart problem that a person is born with. The cause is unknown. To understand more about Ebstein anomaly, it may help to know how the heart works.
Risk Factors for Ebstein anomaly:
Ebstein anomaly occurs as the baby grows in the womb during pregnancy.
During the first six weeks of pregnancy, a baby's heart begins to form and starts beating. The major blood vessels that run to and from the heart also begin to develop during this critical time.
It's at this point in a baby's development that congenital heart problems may begin to develop. Researchers aren't sure exactly what increases the risk of a baby having Ebstein anomaly. Genetics and environmental factors are believed be involved. Using some medicines during pregnancy, such as lithium, might increase the risk of Ebstein anomaly in the child.
Complications for Ebstein anomaly:
Possible complications of Ebstein anomaly include:
Irregular heartbeats.
Heart failure.
Sudden cardiac arrest.
Stroke.
There are no preventive measures available for Ebstein anomaly in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ectropion
Overview of Ectropion:
Ectropion (ek-TROH-pee-on) is a condition in which your eyelid turns outward. This leaves the inner eyelid surface exposed and prone to irritation.
Ectropion is more common in older adults, and it generally affects only the lower eyelid. In severe ectropion, the entire length of the eyelid is turned out. In less severe ectropion, only one segment of the eyelid sags away from the eye.
Artificial tears and lubricating ointments can help relieve symptoms of ectropion. But usually surgery is needed to fully correct the condition.
Home Remedies for Ectropion:
These lifestyle tips may relieve your discomfort from ectropion:
Use eye lubricants. Artificial tears and eye ointments can help keep your cornea lubricated and prevent vision-threatening damage. Using an eye ointment and wearing a moisture shield over your eye is particularly useful overnight.
Wipe your eyes carefully. Constantly wiping watery eyes can make your under-eye muscles and tendons stretch even further, worsening your ectropion. Wipe from the outer eye up and in toward the nose.
Symptoms for Ectropion :
Normally when you blink, your eyelids distribute tears evenly across your eyes, keeping the surfaces of the eyes lubricated. These tears drain into small openings on the inner part of your eyelids (puncta).
If you have ectropion, your lower lid pulls away from your eye and tears don't drain properly into the puncta. The resulting signs and symptoms can include:
Watery eyes (excessive tearing). Without proper drainage, your tears may pool and constantly flow over your eyelids.
Excessive dryness. Ectropion can cause your eyes to feel dry, gritty and sandy.
Irritation. Stagnant tears or dryness can irritate your eyes, causing a burning sensation and redness in your eyelids and the whites of your eyes.
Sensitivity to light. Stagnant tears or dry eyes can irritate the surface of the cornea, making you sensitive to light.
Causes for Ectropion :
Ectropion can be caused by:
Muscle weakness. As you age, the muscles under your eyes tend to weaken, and tendons stretch out. These muscles and tendons hold your eyelid taut against your eye. When they weaken, your eyelid can begin to droop.
Facial paralysis. Certain conditions, such as Bell's palsy, and certain types of tumors can paralyze facial nerves and muscles. Facial paralysis that affects eyelid muscles can lead to ectropion.
Scars or previous surgeries. Skin that has been damaged by burns or trauma, such as a dog bite, can affect the way that your eyelid rests against your eye. Previous eyelid surgery (blepharoplasty) can cause ectropion, particularly if a considerable amount of skin was removed from the eyelid at the time of surgery.
Eyelid growths. Benign or cancerous growths on your eyelid can cause the lid to turn outward.
Genetic disorders. Rarely is ectropion present at birth (congenital). When it is, it's usually associated with genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome.
Risk Factors for Ectropion:
Factors that increase your risk of developing ectropion include:
Age. The most common cause of ectropion is weakening muscle tissue associated with aging.
Previous eye surgeries. People who have had eyelid surgery are at higher risk of developing ectropion later.
Previous cancer, burns or trauma. If you've had spots of skin cancer on your face, facial burns or trauma, you're at higher risk of developing ectropion.
Complications for Ectropion:
Ectropion leaves your cornea irritated and exposed, making it more susceptible to drying. The result can be abrasions and ulcers on the cornea, which can threaten your vision.
There are no preventive measures available for Ectropion in the knowledge baseCondition name:Edema
Overview of Edema:
Edema is swelling caused by too much fluid trapped in the body's tissues. Edema can affect any part of the body. But it's more likely to show up in the legs and feet.
Medicines and pregnancy can cause edema. It also can be the result of a disease, such as congestive heart failure, kidney disease, venous insufficiency or cirrhosis of the liver.
Wearing compression garments and reducing salt in the diet often relieves edema. When a disease causes edema, the disease needs treatment, as well.
Home Remedies for Edema:
Compression stockings
Enlarge image
The following may help decrease edema and keep it from coming back. Talk to your health care provider about which of these might help you.
Use pressure. If edema affects an arm or leg, wearing compression stockings, sleeves or gloves might help. These garments keep pressure on the limbs to prevent fluid from building up. Usually worn after the swelling goes down, they help prevent more swelling.
For pregnant people, wearing support stockings during air travel might help.
Move. Moving and using the muscles in the part of the body that's swollen, especially the legs, might help move fluid back toward the heart. A health care provider can talk about exercises that might reduce swelling.
Raise. Hold the swollen part of the body above the level of the heart several times a day. Sometimes, raising the swollen area during sleep can be helpful.
Massage. Stroking the affected area toward the heart using firm, but not painful, pressure might help move fluid out of that area.
Protect. Keep the swollen area clean and free from injury. Use lotion or cream. Dry, cracked skin is more open to scrapes, cuts and infection. Always wear socks or shoes on the feet if that's where the swelling usually is.
Reduce salt. A health care provider can talk about limiting salt. Salt can increase fluid buildup and worsen edema.
Symptoms for Edema :
Symptoms of edema include:
Swelling or puffiness of the tissue right under the skin, especially in legs or arms.
Stretched or shiny skin.
Skin that holds a dimple, also known as pitting, after it's been pressed for a few seconds.
Swelling of the belly, also called the abdomen, so that it's bigger than usual.
Feeling of leg heaviness.
Causes for Edema :
Edema occurs when tiny blood vessels in the body, also known as capillaries, leak fluid. The fluid builds up in nearby tissues. The leak leads to swelling.
Causes of mild cases of edema include:
Sitting or staying in one position for too long.
Eating too much salty food.
Being premenstrual.
Being pregnant.
Edema also can be a side effect of some medicines. These include:
High blood pressure medicines.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medicines.
Steroid medicines.
Estrogens.
Certain diabetes medicines called thiazolidinediones.
Medicines use to treat nerve pain.
Sometimes edema can be a sign of a more serious condition. Illnesses that can cause edema include:
Congestive heart failure. Congestive heart failure causes one or both of the heart's lower chambers stop pumping blood well. As a result, blood can back up in the legs, ankles and feet, causing edema.
Congestive heart failure can also cause swelling in the stomach area. This condition also can cause fluid to build up in the lungs. Known as pulmonary edema, this can lead to shortness of breath.
Liver damage. This liver damage from cirrhosis can cause fluid to build up in the stomach area. and in the legs. This fluid buildup in the stomach area is known as ascites.
Kidney disease. Kidney disease can cause fluid and salts in the blood to build up. Edema linked to kidney disease usually occurs in the legs and around the eyes.
Kidney damage. Damage to the tiny, filtering blood vessels in the kidneys can result in nephrotic syndrome. In nephrotic syndrome, decreased levels of protein in the blood can lead to edema.
Weakness or damage to veins in your legs. This condition, known as chronic venous insufficiency, harms the one-way valves in the leg. One-way valves keep blood flowing in one direction. Damage to the valves allows blood to pool in the leg veins and causes swelling.
Deep vein thrombosis, also called DVT. Sudden swelling in one leg with pain in the calf muscle can be due to a blood clot in one of the leg veins. DVT requires medical help right away.
Problems with the system in the body that clears extra fluid from tissues. If the body's lymphatic system is damaged, such as by cancer surgery, the lymphatic system might not drain well.
Severe, long-term lack of protein. An extreme lack of protein in the diet over time can lead to edema.
Risk Factors for Edema:
The following increases the risk of edema:
Being pregnant.
Taking certain medicines.
Having a long-lasting illness, such as congestive heart failure or liver or kidney disease.
Having surgery that involves a lymph node.
Complications for Edema:
If left untreated, edema can cause:
Swelling that gets more and more painful.
Problems walking.
Stiffness.
Stretched skin, which can itch.
Increased risk of infection in the swollen area.
Scarring between layers of tissue.
Less blood flow.
Less ability of the of arteries, veins, joints and muscles to stretch.
Increased risk of skin ulcers.
There are no preventive measures available for Edema in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
Overview of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome:
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is a group of inherited disorders that affect your connective tissues — primarily your skin, joints and blood vessel walls. Connective tissue is a complex mixture of proteins and other substances that provide strength and elasticity to the underlying structures in your body.
People who have Ehlers-Danlos syndrome usually have overly flexible joints and stretchy, fragile skin. This can become a problem if you have a wound that requires stitches, because the skin often isn't strong enough to hold them.
A more severe form of the disorder, called vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, can cause the walls of your blood vessels, intestines or uterus to rupture. Because vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome can have serious potential complications in pregnancy, you may want to talk to a genetic counselor before starting a family.
Home Remedies for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome:
If you have Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, it's important to prevent injuries. Here are a few things you can do to safeguard yourself.
Choose sports wisely. Walking, swimming, tai chi, recreational biking, or using an elliptical machine or a stationary bike are all good choices. Avoid contact sports, weightlifting and other activities that increase your risk of injury. Minimize stress on your hips, knees and ankles.
Rest your jaw. To protect your jaw joint, avoid chewing gum, hard rolls and ice. Take breaks during dental work to close your mouth.
Wear supportive shoes. To help prevent ankle sprains, wear laced boots with good arch support.
Improve sleep. Body pillows and super-dense foam mattresses can provide support and cushioning for painful joints. Sleeping on your side may also help.
Symptoms for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome :
There are many different types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, but the most common signs and symptoms include:
Overly flexible joints. Because the connective tissue that holds joints together is looser, your joints can move far past the normal range of motion. Joint pain and dislocations are common.
Stretchy skin. Weakened connective tissue allows your skin to stretch much more than usual. You may be able to pull a pinch of skin up away from your flesh, but it will snap right back into place when you let go. Your skin might also feel exceptionally soft and velvety.
Fragile skin. Damaged skin often doesn't heal well. For example, the stitches used to close a wound often will tear out and leave a gaping scar. These scars may look thin and crinkly.
Symptom severity can vary from person to person and depends on the specific type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome that you have. The most common type is called hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.
Causes for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome :
Different types of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are associated with a variety of genetic causes, some of which are inherited and passed on from parent to child. If you have the most common form, hypermobile Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, there's a 50% chance that you'll pass on the gene to each of your children.
There are no Risk Factors available for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome in the knowledge baseComplications for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome:
Complications depend on the types of signs and symptoms you have. For example, overly flexible joints can result in joint dislocations and early-onset arthritis. Fragile skin may develop prominent scarring.
People who have vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome are at risk of often fatal ruptures of major blood vessels. Some organs, such as the uterus and intestines, also may rupture. Pregnancy can increase the risk of a rupture in the uterus.
Preventions for Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
If you have a personal or family history of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and you're thinking about starting a family, you may benefit from talking to a genetic counselor — a health care professional trained to assess the risk of inherited disorders. Genetic counseling can help you understand the inheritance pattern of the type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome that affects you and the risks it poses for your children.
Condition name:Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis
Overview of Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis:
Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis are similar tick-borne illnesses that cause flu-like symptoms, including fever, muscle aches and headache. Signs and symptoms of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis usually appear within 14 days after a tick bite.
If treated quickly with appropriate antibiotics, you'll likely recover within a few days. Untreated ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis can result in serious or life-threatening complications.
The best way to prevent these infections is to avoid tick bites. Tick repellents, thorough body checks after being outside and proper removal of ticks are your best defenses against these tick-borne diseases.
Home Remedies for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis:
If you find a tick on your body, don't be alarmed. Removing a tick promptly is a good defense against transmission of bacteria. Use the following steps:
Gloves. Wear medical gloves or similar gloves if possible to protect your hands.
Tweezers. Use fine-tipped tweezers to grab the tick firmly near its head or mouth, and as close to the skin as possible.
Removal. Pull the tick's body away your skin steadily and slowly without jerking or twisting it. If parts of the mouth remain, remove them with clean tweezers.
Disposal. Kill the tick by putting it in alcohol. Do not crush the tick to avoid exposure to possible bacteria. The dead tick can be flushed, lightly wrapped in tape before throwing in the trash or stored in a freezer.
Storage. A tick can be tested at a later date if you suspect infection. Place the tick in a container, label it with the date, and place it in the freezer.
Cleanup. Use soap and water to wash your hands after handling the tick and around the tick bite. Clean the site and your hands with rubbing alcohol.
Don't apply petroleum jelly, fingernail polish, rubbing alcohol or a hot match to the tick.
Monitor the bite site
A small, red bump, similar to the bump of a mosquito bite, often appears at the site of a tick bite or tick removal and resolves over a few days. This is normal and should not cause alarm.
If you experience continued irritation at the site or experience any signs or symptoms that may indicate a tick-borne infection, contact your doctor.
Symptoms for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis :
Signs and symptoms of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis are generally the same, although they usually are more severe in ehrlichiosis. Symptoms of ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis, which vary widely from person to person, include:
Moderate fever
Chills
Headache
Muscles aches or pains
General feeling of being unwell
Joint pain
Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhea
Loss of appetite
Additional signs and symptoms associated with ehrlichiosis but rarely with anaplasmosis include:
Confusion or changes in mental state
Rash
Some people may be infected and not develop symptoms.
Causes for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis :
Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis are caused by different bacteria.
Ehrlichiosis is caused by different species of ehrlichia bacteria. The Lone Star tick — found in south-central, southeastern and eastern coastal states — is the primary carrier of bacteria causing ehrlichiosis. Black-legged ticks, commonly called deer ticks, in the Upper Midwest are less common carriers.
Anaplasmosis is caused by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum. It's primarily carried by deer ticks in the Upper Midwest, northeastern states and central Canadian provinces. It's also carried by the Western black-legged tick in Western coastal states and other tick species in Europe and Asia.
The ehrlichia and anaplasma species belong to the same family of bacteria. Although each bacterium appears to have a specific target among immune system cells in the host, all of these infectious agents generally cause the same symptoms.
Risk Factors for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis:
Ticks live near the ground in wooded or brushy areas. They do not fly or jump, so they can only reach a host who brushes up against them. Factors that increase your risk of a tick bite include:
Being outdoors in warm spring and summer months
Participating in activities in wooded areas, such as camping, hiking or hunting
Wearing clothes that leave your skin exposed in tick-friendly habitat
Complications for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis:
Without prompt treatment, ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis can have serious effects on an otherwise healthy adult or child. People with weakened immune systems are at a higher risk of more-serious and life-threatening complications.
Complications of an untreated infection may include:
Kidney failure
Respiratory failure
Heart failure
Damage to the central nervous system
Seizures
Coma
Severe secondary infections
Preventions for Ehrlichiosis and anaplasmosis
The best way to steer clear of ehrlichiosis or anaplasmosis is to avoid tick bites when you are outdoors. Most ticks attach themselves to your lower legs and feet as you walk or work in grassy, wooded areas or overgrown fields. After a tick attaches to your body, it usually crawls upward to find a location to burrow into your skin.
If you are going to be working or playing in an area that is a likely tick habitat, follow these tips to protect yourself.
Condition name:Eisenmenger syndrome
Overview of Eisenmenger syndrome:
Eisenmenger (I-sun-meng-ur) syndrome is a long-term complication of an unrepaired heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect. Eisenmenger syndrome is life-threatening.
In Eisenmenger syndrome, there is irregular blood flow in the heart and lungs. This causes the blood vessels in the lungs to become stiff and narrow. Blood pressure rises in the lungs' arteries. Eisenmenger syndrome causes permanent to the blood vessels in the lungs.
Early diagnosis and repair of congenital heart defects usually prevents Eisenmenger syndrome. If it does develop, treatment involves regular health checkups and medicines to improve symptoms.
Home Remedies for Eisenmenger syndrome:
If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, these tips may help improve your quality of life.
Drink plenty of fluids. Ask your healthcare team how much fluid you need each day. You may need to drink more fluids when you are sick or when you are in a heated room or on an airplane.
Ask if exercise and sports are OK. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, you shouldn't do really hard exercise or sports. But you may be able to do less intense physical activities. Ask your healthcare professional what type of physical activity is best for you.
Avoid high altitudes. Because of the low oxygen levels at high altitudes, people with Eisenmenger syndrome should not spend a lot of time at high altitudes. The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association say to avoid exposure to altitudes of 5,000 feet (1,524 meters) or more above sea level. If you plan to take an airplane trip or travel to high altitudes, ask your healthcare professional for specific guidance.
Avoid situations that can greatly lower blood pressure. For example, do not sit in a hot tub or sauna or take long hot baths or showers. Such activities lower blood pressure and may cause fainting or other complications. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, also avoid activities that cause prolonged straining, such as lifting heavy objects or weights.
Use medicines and supplements with care. Many supplements and medicines, including those bought without a prescription, can affect blood pressure. Some may increase the risk of bleeding or affect kidney function in those who have Eisenmenger syndrome. Talk with your healthcare team before taking any new supplements or medicines.
Get a flu shot. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, it's especially important to prevent respiratory infections such as the flu. Get a flu shot every year and a pneumonia vaccination every five years.
Do not smoke or use tobacco. Also stay away from secondhand smoke. Smoking can increase the risk of Eisenmenger syndrome complications.
Birth control and pregnancy
If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, pregnancy poses serious health risks â€” and can be life-threatening â€” for you and the baby. Healthcare professionals say it's critical that pregnancy be avoided if you have Eisenmenger syndrome.
Effective contraceptive methods include vasectomy, an intrauterine device (IUD) or a contraceptive hormonal implant such as etonogestrel (Nexplanon). Tying of the fallopian tubes, also called tubal ligation, is a very effective form of contraception. But it's less often recommended due to the risks posed by having even minor surgery.
Birth control pills containing estrogen aren't recommended for those who have Eisenmenger syndrome. Estrogen increases the risk of developing blood clots that could potentially block an artery to the heart, brain or lungs. Using a barrier method alone, such as a condom or diaphragm, isn't recommended due to the risk of failure.
Symptoms for Eisenmenger syndrome :
Symptoms of Eisenmenger syndrome include:
Blue or gray skin. Depending on skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Chest pain or tightness.
Coughing up blood.
Dizziness or fainting.
Easily tiring and shortness of breath with activity.
Headaches.
Large, rounded fingernails or toenails, called clubbing.
Numbness or tingling in fingers or toes.
Shortness of breath while at rest.
Skipped or racing heartbeats.
Causes for Eisenmenger syndrome :
Eisenmenger syndrome is usually caused by an unrepaired hole between the main blood vessels or chambers of the heart. The hole is called a shunt. A shunt is a heart problem present at birth, which means it's a congenital heart defect.
Congenital heart defects that can cause Eisenmenger syndrome include:
Ventricular septal defect. This is the most common cause of Eisenmenger syndrome. There is a hole in the wall of tissue between the bottom heart chambers.
Atrioventricular canal defect. This is a large hole in the center of the heart. The hole is where the walls between the upper chambers and lower chambers meet. Some of the valves in the heart also may not work as they should.
Atrial septal defect. This is a hole in the wall of tissue between the two upper heart chambers.
Patent ductus arteriosus. This is an opening between the artery that carries oxygen-poor blood to the lungs and the body's main artery.
In any of these heart conditions, blood flows in a way it usually doesn't. As a result, pressure rises in the pulmonary artery. Over time, the increased pressure damages the smaller blood vessels in the lungs. The damaged blood vessel walls make it hard for the heart to pump blood to the lungs.
In Eisenmenger syndrome, blood pressure rises in the side of the heart that has oxygen-poor blood, also called blue blood. The blue blood goes through the hole in the heart or blood vessels. Oxygen-rich and oxygen-poor blood now mix. This causes low blood oxygen levels.
Risk Factors for Eisenmenger syndrome:
A family history of congenital heart defects increases the risk of similar heart problems in a baby. If you've been diagnosed with Eisenmenger syndrome, talk with your healthcare professional about screening other family members for congenital heart defects.
Complications for Eisenmenger syndrome:
Eisenmenger syndrome is a life-threatening condition. How well someone with Eisenmenger syndrome does depends on the specific cause and if there are other medical conditions.
Complications of Eisenmenger syndrome may include:
Low blood oxygen levels. The change in blood flow through the heart sends less oxygen to the body's tissues and organs. Without quick treatment, the oxygen levels get worse.
Irregular heartbeats, also called arrhythmias. Eisenmenger syndrome causes the heart walls to get bigger and thicker. It also causes a drop in oxygen levels. These changes may lead to irregular heartbeats. Some irregular heartbeats increase the risk of blood clots that can cause heart attacks or strokes.
Sudden cardiac arrest. This is the sudden loss of heart activity due to an irregular heart rhythm. If not treated immediately, sudden cardiac arrest can quickly lead to death. Survival is possible with fast, proper medical care.
Heart failure. The increased pressure in the heart can cause the heart muscle to weaken. It becomes harder for the heart to pump blood.
Bleeding in the lungs. Eisenmenger syndrome can cause life-threatening bleeding in the lungs and airways. Bleeding also can occur in other parts of the body.
Stroke. If a blood clot travels from the right side to the left side of the heart, the clot may block a blood vessel in the brain. A blood clot in the brain can lead to a stroke.
Kidney disease. Low oxygen levels in the blood may lead to trouble with the kidneys.
Gout. Eisenmenger syndrome can increase the risk of a type of arthritis called gout. Gout causes sudden, severe attacks of pain and swelling in one or more joints, usually the big toe.
Heart infection. People with Eisenmenger syndrome have a higher risk of a heart infection called endocarditis.
Pregnancy risks. During pregnancy, the heart and lungs have to work harder to support the growing baby. Because of this, pregnancy with Eisenmenger syndrome poses a high risk of death for both the pregnant person and the baby. If you have Eisenmenger syndrome, talk with your healthcare professional about your specific pregnancy risks.
There are no preventive measures available for Eisenmenger syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Embryonal tumors
Overview of Embryonal tumors:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Embryonal tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Embryonal tumors :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Embryonal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Embryonal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Embryonal tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Embryonal tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Emphysema
Overview of Emphysema:
Emphysema is a lung condition that causes shortness of breath. In people with emphysema, the air sacs in the lungs (alveoli) are damaged. Over time, the inner walls of the air sacs weaken and rupture — creating larger air spaces instead of many small ones. This reduces the surface area of the lungs and, in turn, the amount of oxygen that reaches your bloodstream.
When you exhale, the damaged alveoli don't work properly and old air becomes trapped, leaving no room for fresh, oxygen-rich air to enter.
Most people with emphysema also have chronic bronchitis. Chronic bronchitis is inflammation of the tubes that carry air to your lungs (bronchial tubes), which leads to a persistent cough.
Emphysema and chronic bronchitis are two conditions that make up chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Smoking is the leading cause of COPD. Treatment may slow the progression of COPD, but it can't reverse the damage.
Home Remedies for Emphysema:
If you have emphysema, you can take a number of steps to halt its progression and to protect yourself from complications:
Stop smoking. This is the most important measure you can take for your overall health and the only one that might halt the progression of emphysema. Join a smoking cessation program if you need help giving up smoking. As much as possible, avoid secondhand smoke.
Avoid other respiratory irritants. These include fumes from paint and automobile exhaust, some cooking odors, certain perfumes, even burning candles and incense. Change furnace and air conditioner filters regularly to limit pollutants.
Exercise regularly. Try not to let your breathing problems keep you from getting regular exercise, which can significantly increase your lung capacity.
Protect yourself from cold air. Cold air can cause spasms of the bronchial passages, making it even more difficult to breathe. During cold weather, wear a soft scarf or a cold-air mask â€” available from a pharmacy â€” over your mouth and nose before going outside, to warm the air entering your lungs.
Get recommended vaccinations. Be sure to get an annual flu shot and pneumonia vaccinations as advised by your doctor.
Prevent respiratory infections. Do your best to avoid direct contact with people who have a cold or the flu. If you have to mingle with large groups of people during cold and flu season, wear a face mask, wash your hands frequently and carry a small bottle of alcohol-based hand sanitizer to use when needed.
Symptoms for Emphysema :
You can have emphysema for many years without noticing any signs or symptoms. The main symptom of emphysema is shortness of breath, which usually begins gradually.
You may start avoiding activities that cause you to be short of breath, so the symptom doesn't become a problem until it starts interfering with daily tasks. Emphysema eventually causes shortness of breath even while you're at rest.
See your doctor if you've had unexplained shortness of breath for several months, especially if it's getting worse or it's interfering with your daily activities. Don't ignore it by telling yourself it's because you're aging or out of shape. Seek immediate medical attention if:
You're so short of breath, you can't climb stairs
Your lips or fingernails turn blue or gray with exertion
You're not mentally alert
Causes for Emphysema :
The main cause of emphysema is long-term exposure to airborne irritants, including:
Tobacco smoke
Marijuana smoke
Air pollution
Chemical fumes and dust
Rarely, emphysema is caused by an inherited deficiency of a protein that protects the elastic structures in the lungs. It's called alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency emphysema.
Risk Factors for Emphysema:
Factors that increase your risk of developing emphysema include:
Smoking. Emphysema is most likely to develop in cigarette smokers, but cigar and pipe smokers also are susceptible. The risk for all types of smokers increases with the number of years and amount of tobacco smoked.
Age. Although the lung damage that occurs in emphysema develops gradually, most people with tobacco-related emphysema begin to experience symptoms of the disease between the ages of 40 and 60.
Exposure to secondhand smoke. Secondhand smoke, also known as passive or environmental tobacco smoke, is smoke that you inadvertently inhale from someone else's cigarette, pipe or cigar. Being around secondhand smoke increases your risk of emphysema.
Occupational exposure to fumes or dust. If you breathe fumes from certain chemicals or dust from grain, cotton, wood or mining products, you're more likely to develop emphysema. This risk is even greater if you smoke.
Exposure to indoor and outdoor pollution. Breathing indoor pollutants, such as fumes from heating fuel, as well as outdoor pollutants — car exhaust, for instance — increases your risk of emphysema.
Complications for Emphysema:
People who have emphysema are also more likely to develop:
Collapsed lung (pneumothorax). A collapsed lung can be life-threatening in people who have severe emphysema, because the function of their lungs is already so compromised. This is uncommon but serious when it occurs.
Heart problems. Emphysema can increase the pressure in the arteries that connect the heart and lungs. This can cause a condition called cor pulmonale, in which a section of the heart expands and weakens.
Large holes in the lungs (bullae). Some people with emphysema develop empty spaces in the lungs called bullae. They can be as large as half the lung. In addition to reducing the amount of space available for the lung to expand, giant bullae can increase your risk of pneumothorax.
Preventions for Emphysema
To prevent emphysema, don't smoke and avoid breathing secondhand smoke. Wear a mask to protect your lungs if you work with chemical fumes or dust.
Condition name:Encephalitis
Overview of Encephalitis:
Encephalitis (en-sef-uh-LIE-tis) is inflammation of the brain. It can be caused by viral or bacterial infections, or by immune cells mistakenly attacking the brain. Viruses that can lead to encephalitis can be spread by insects such as mosquitos and ticks.
When inflammation is caused by an infection in the brain, it's known as infectious encephalitis. And when it's caused by the immune system attacking the brain, it's known as autoimmune encephalitis. Sometimes there is no known cause.
Encephalitis can sometimes lead to death. Getting diagnosed and treated right away is important because it's hard to predict how encephalitis may affect each person.
There are no home remedies available for Encephalitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Encephalitis :
Encephalitis may cause many different symptoms including confusion, personality changes, seizures or trouble with movement. Encephalitis also may cause changes in sight or hearing.
Most people with infectious encephalitis have flu-like symptoms, such as:
Headache.
Fever.
Aches in muscles or joints.
Fatigue or weakness.
Typically, these are followed by more-serious symptoms over a period of hours to days, such as:
Stiff neck.
Confusion, agitation or hallucinations.
Seizures.
Loss of feeling or being unable to move certain areas of the face or body.
Irregular movements.
Muscle weakness.
Trouble with speech or hearing.
Loss of consciousness, including coma.
In infants and young children, symptoms also might include:
Bulging of the soft spots of an infant's skull.
Nausea and vomiting.
Stiffness affecting the whole body.
Poor feeding or not waking for a feeding.
Irritability.
In autoimmune encephalitis, symptoms may develop more slowly over several weeks. Flu-like symptoms are less common but can sometimes happen weeks before more-serious symptoms start. Symptoms are different for everyone, but it's common for people to have a combination of symptoms, including:
Changes in personality.
Memory loss.
Trouble understanding what is real and what is not, known as psychosis.
Seeing or hearing things that aren't there, known as hallucinations.
Seizures.
Changes in vision.
Sleep problems.
Muscle weakness.
Loss of sensation.
Trouble walking.
Irregular movements.
Bladder and bowel symptoms.
Causes for Encephalitis :
In about half of patients, the exact cause of encephalitis is not known.
In those for whom a cause is found, there are two main types of encephalitis:
Infectious encephalitis. This condition usually occurs when a virus infects the brain. The infection may affect one area or be widespread. Viruses are the most common causes of infectious encephalitis, including some that can be passed by mosquitoes or ticks. Very rarely, encephalitis may be caused by bacteria, fungus or parasites.
Autoimmune encephalitis. This condition occurs when your own immune cells mistakenly attack the brain or make antibodies targeting proteins and receptors in the brain. The exact reason why this happens is not completely understood. Sometimes autoimmune encephalitis can be triggered by cancerous or noncancerous tumors, known as paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system. Other types of autoimmune encephalitis such as acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM) can be triggered by an infection in the body. This is known as post-infectious autoimmune encephalitis. In many instances, no trigger for the immune response is found.
Risk Factors for Encephalitis:
Anyone can develop encephalitis. Factors that may increase the risk include:
Age. Some types of encephalitis are more common or more serious in certain age groups. In general, young children and older adults are at greater risk of most types of viral encephalitis. Similarly, some forms of autoimmune encephalitis are more common in children and young adults, whereas others are more common in older adults.
Weakened immune system. People who have HIV/AIDS, take immune-suppressing medicines or have another condition causing a weakened immune system are at increased risk of encephalitis.
Geographical regions. Mosquito- or tick-borne viruses are common in particular geographical regions.
Season of the year. Mosquito- and tick-borne diseases tend to be more common in summer in many areas of the United States.
Autoimmune disease. People who already have an autoimmune condition may be more prone to develop autoimmune encephalitis.
Smoking. Smoking increases the chances of developing lung cancer, which in turn increases the risk of developing paraneoplastic syndromes including encephalitis.
Complications for Encephalitis:
The complications of encephalitis vary, depending on factors such as:
Your age.
The cause of your infection.
The severity of your initial illness.
The time from disease onset to treatment.
People with relatively mild illness usually recover within a few weeks with no long-term complications.
Preventions for Encephalitis
The best way to prevent viral encephalitis is to take precautions to avoid exposure to viruses that can cause the disease. Try to:
Practice good hygiene. Wash hands often and thoroughly with soap and water, especially after using the toilet and before and after meals.
Don't share utensils. Don't share tableware and drinks.
Teach your children good habits. Make sure they practice good hygiene and avoid sharing utensils at home and school.
Get vaccinations. Keep your own and your children's vaccinations current. Before traveling, talk to your healthcare professional about recommended vaccinations for different destinations.
Condition name:Endometrial cancer
Overview of Endometrial cancer:
Endometrial cancer is a type of cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the uterus. The uterus is the hollow, pear-shaped pelvic organ where fetal development happens.
Endometrial cancer begins in the layer of cells that form the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium. Endometrial cancer is sometimes called uterine cancer. Other types of cancer can form in the uterus, including uterine sarcoma, but they are much less common than endometrial cancer.
Endometrial cancer is often found at an early stage because it causes symptoms. Often the first symptom is irregular vaginal bleeding. If endometrial cancer is found early, surgically removing the uterus often cures it.
There are no home remedies available for Endometrial cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Endometrial cancer :
Symptoms of endometrial cancer may include:
Vaginal bleeding after menopause.
Bleeding between periods.
Pelvic pain.
Causes for Endometrial cancer :
The cause of endometrial cancer isn't known. What's known is that something happens to cells in the lining of the uterus that changes them into cancer cells.
Endometrial cancer starts when cells in the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium, get changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The changes also tell the cells to continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This causes a lot of extra cells. The cells might form a mass called a tumor. The cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Endometrial cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of endometrial cancer include:
Changes in the balance of hormones in the body. The two main hormones the ovaries make are estrogen and progesterone. Changes in the balance of these hormones cause changes in the endometrium.
A disease or condition that increases the amount of estrogen, but not the level of progesterone, in the body can increase the risk of endometrial cancer. Examples include obesity, diabetes and irregular ovulation patterns, which might happen in polycystic ovary syndrome. Taking hormone therapy medicine that contains estrogen but not progestin after menopause increases the risk of endometrial cancer.
A rare type of ovarian tumor that gives off estrogen also can increase the risk of endometrial cancer.
More years of menstruation. Starting menstruation before age 12 or beginning menopause later increases the risk of endometrial cancer. The more periods you've had, the more exposure your endometrium has had to estrogen.
Never having been pregnant. If you've never been pregnant, you have a higher risk of endometrial cancer than someone who has had at least one pregnancy.
Older age. As you get older, your risk of endometrial cancer increases. Endometrial cancer occurs most often after menopause.
Obesity. Being obese increases your risk of endometrial cancer. This may happen because extra body fat can alter your body's balance of hormones.
Hormone therapy for breast cancer. Taking the hormone therapy medicine tamoxifen for breast cancer can increase the risk of developing endometrial cancer. If you're taking tamoxifen, talk about the risk with your health care team. For most, the benefits of tamoxifen outweigh the small risk of endometrial cancer.
An inherited syndrome that increases the risk of cancer. Lynch syndrome increases the risk of colon cancer and other cancers, including endometrial cancer. Lynch syndrome is caused by a DNA change that's passed from parents to children. If a family member has been diagnosed with Lynch syndrome, ask your health care team about your risk of this genetic syndrome. If you've been diagnosed with Lynch syndrome, ask what cancer screenings you need.
There are no Complications available for Endometrial cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Endometrial cancer
To reduce your risk of endometrial cancer, you may wish to:
Talk to your health care team about the risks of hormone therapy after menopause. If you're considering hormone replacement therapy to help control menopause symptoms, ask about the risks and benefits. Unless you've had your uterus removed, replacing estrogen alone after menopause may increase your risk of endometrial cancer. A hormone therapy medicine that combines estrogen and progestin can reduce this risk. Hormone therapy carries other risks, so weigh the benefits and risks with your health care team.
Consider taking birth control pills. Using oral contraceptives for at least one year may reduce endometrial cancer risk. Oral contraceptives are contraceptives that are taken in pill form. They also are called birth control pills. The risk reduction is thought to last for several years after you stop taking oral contraceptives. Oral contraceptives have side effects, though, so discuss the benefits and risks with your health care team.
Maintain a healthy weight. Obesity increases the risk of endometrial cancer, so work to achieve and maintain a healthy weight. If you need to lose weight, increase your physical activity and reduce the number of calories you eat each day.
Condition name:Endometriosis
Overview of Endometriosis:
Endometriosis (en-doe-me-tree-O-sis) is an often-painful condition in which tissue that is similar to the inner lining of the uterus grows outside the uterus. It often affects the ovaries, fallopian tubes and the tissue lining the pelvis. Rarely, endometriosis growths may be found beyond the area where pelvic organs are located.
Endometriosis tissue acts as the lining inside the uterus would — it thickens, breaks down and bleeds with each menstrual cycle. But it grows in places where it doesn't belong, and it doesn't leave the body. When endometriosis involves the ovaries, cysts called endometriomas may form. Surrounding tissue can become irritated and form scar tissue. Bands of fibrous tissue called adhesions also may form. These can cause pelvic tissues and organs to stick to each other.
Endometriosis can cause pain, especially during menstrual periods. Fertility problems also may develop. But treatments can help you take charge of the condition and its complications.
Home Remedies for Endometriosis:
It may take time to find a treatment that works. Until then, you can try some things at home to ease your pain.
Warm baths and a heating pad can help relax pelvic muscles. This lessens cramping and pain.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) can help ease painful menstrual cramps. NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
You also can ask your health care team if physical therapy might help. A therapist can teach you how to relax muscles that support the uterus, called the pelvic floor. Relaxing these tight muscles may help pelvic pain linked with endometriosis feel less intense.
Symptoms for Endometriosis :
The main symptom of endometriosis is pelvic pain. It's often linked with menstrual periods. Although many people have cramping during their periods, those with endometriosis often describe menstrual pain that's far worse than usual. The pain also may become worse over time.
Common symptoms of endometriosis include:
Painful periods. Pelvic pain and cramping may start before a menstrual period and last for days into it. You also may have lower back and stomach pain. Another name for painful periods is dysmenorrhea.
Pain with sex. Pain during or after sex is common with endometriosis.
Pain with bowel movements or urination. You're most likely to have these symptoms before or during a menstrual period.
Excessive bleeding. Sometimes, you may have heavy menstrual periods or bleeding between periods.
Infertility. For some people, endometriosis is first found during tests for infertility treatment.
Other symptoms. You may have fatigue, diarrhea, constipation, bloating or nausea. These symptoms are more common before or during menstrual periods.
The seriousness of your pain may not be a sign of the number or extent of endometriosis growths in your body. You could have a small amount of tissue with bad pain. Or you could have lots of endometriosis tissue with little or no pain.
Still, some people with endometriosis have no symptoms. Often, they find out they have the condition when they can't get pregnant or after they get surgery for another reason.
For those with symptoms, endometriosis sometimes may seem like other conditions that can cause pelvic pain. These include pelvic inflammatory disease or ovarian cysts. Or it may be confused with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), which causes bouts of diarrhea, constipation and stomach cramps. IBS also can happen along with endometriosis. This makes it harder for your health care team to find the exact cause of your symptoms.
Causes for Endometriosis :
The exact cause of endometriosis isn't clear. But some possible causes include:
Retrograde menstruation. This is when menstrual blood flows back through the fallopian tubes and into the pelvic cavity instead of out of the body. The blood contains endometrial cells from the inner lining of the uterus. These cells may stick to the pelvic walls and surfaces of pelvic organs. There, they might grow and continue to thicken and bleed over the course of each menstrual cycle.
Transformed peritoneal cells. Experts suggest that hormones or immune factors might help transform cells that line the inner side of the abdomen, called peritoneal cells, into cells that are like those that line the inside of the uterus.
Embryonic cell changes. Hormones such as estrogen may transform embryonic cells — cells in the earliest stages of development — into endometrial-like cell growths during puberty.
Surgical scar complication. Endometrial cells may attach to scar tissue from a cut made during surgery to the stomach area, such as a C-section.
Endometrial cell transport. The blood vessels or tissue fluid system may move endometrial cells to other parts of the body.
Immune system condition. A problem with the immune system may make the body unable to recognize and destroy endometriosis tissue.
Risk Factors for Endometriosis:
Factors that raise the risk of endometriosis include:
Never giving birth.
Starting your period at an early age.
Going through menopause at an older age.
Short menstrual cycles — for instance, less than 27 days.
Heavy menstrual periods that last longer than seven days.
Having higher levels of estrogen in your body or a greater lifetime exposure to estrogen your body produces.
Low body mass index.
One or more relatives with endometriosis, such as a mother, aunt or sister.
Any health condition that prevents blood from flowing out of the body during menstrual periods also can be an endometriosis risk factor. So can conditions of the reproductive tract.
Endometriosis symptoms often happen years after menstruation starts. The symptoms may get better for a time with pregnancy. Pain may become milder over time with menopause, unless you take estrogen therapy.
There are no Complications available for Endometriosis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Endometriosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:End-stage renal disease
Overview of End-stage renal disease:
End-stage renal disease, also called end-stage kidney disease or kidney failure, occurs when chronic kidney disease — the gradual loss of kidney function — reaches an advanced state. In end-stage renal disease, your kidneys no longer work as they should to meet your body's needs.
Your kidneys filter wastes and excess fluids from your blood, which are then excreted in your urine. When your kidneys lose their filtering abilities, dangerous levels of fluid, electrolytes and wastes can build up in your body.
With end-stage renal disease, you need dialysis or a kidney transplant to stay alive. But you can also choose to opt for conservative care to manage your symptoms — aiming for the best quality of life during your remaining time.
Home Remedies for End-stage renal disease:
As part of your treatment for kidney disease, your health care provider might recommend that you follow a special diet to help support your kidneys and limit the work they must do. Ask for a referral to a registered dietitian with expertise in kidney disease to learn ways to make your diet easier on your kidneys.
Depending on your situation, kidney function and overall health, your dietitian might recommend that you:
Avoid products with added salt. Lower the amount of sodium you eat each day by avoiding products with added salt, including many convenience foods, such as frozen dinners, canned soups and fast foods. Other foods with added salt include salty snack foods, canned vegetables, and processed meats and cheeses.
Choose lower potassium foods. Your dietitian might recommend that you choose lower potassium foods at each meal. High-potassium foods include bananas, oranges, potatoes, spinach and tomatoes.
Examples of low-potassium foods include apples, cabbage, carrots, green beans, grapes and strawberries. Be aware that many salt substitutes contain potassium, so you generally should avoid them if you have kidney failure.
Limit your protein. Your dietitian will estimate the grams of protein you need each day and make recommendations based on that amount. High-protein foods include lean meats, eggs, milk, cheese and beans. Low-protein foods include vegetables, fruits, breads and cereals.
Symptoms for End-stage renal disease :
Early in chronic kidney disease, you might have no signs or symptoms. As chronic kidney disease progresses to end-stage renal disease, signs and symptoms might include:
Nausea
Vomiting
Loss of appetite
Fatigue and weakness
Changes in how much you urinate
Chest pain, if fluid builds up around the lining of the heart
Shortness of breath, if fluid builds up in the lungs
Swelling of feet and ankles
High blood pressure (hypertension) that's difficult to control
Headaches
Difficulty sleeping
Decreased mental sharpness
Muscle twitches and cramps
Persistent itching
Metallic taste
Signs and symptoms of kidney disease are often nonspecific, meaning they can also be caused by other illnesses. Because your kidneys can make up for lost function, signs and symptoms might not appear until irreversible damage has occurred.
Causes for End-stage renal disease :
Kidney disease occurs when a disease or condition impairs kidney function, causing kidney damage to worsen over several months or years. For some people, kidney damage can continue to progress even after the underlying condition is resolved.
Diseases and conditions that can lead to kidney disease include:
Type 1 or type 2 diabetes
High blood pressure
Glomerulonephritis (gloe-mer-u-low-nuh-FRY-tis) — an inflammation of the kidney's filtering units (glomeruli)
Interstitial nephritis (in-tur-STISH-ul nuh-FRY-tis), an inflammation of the kidney's tubules and surrounding structures
Polycystic kidney disease or other inherited kidney diseases
Prolonged obstruction of the urinary tract, from conditions such as enlarged prostate, kidney stones and some cancers
Vesicoureteral (ves-ih-koe-yoo-REE-tur-ul) reflux, a condition that causes urine to back up into your kidneys
Recurrent kidney infection, also called pyelonephritis (pie-uh-low-nuh-FRY-tis)
Risk Factors for End-stage renal disease:
Certain factors increase the risk that chronic kidney disease will progress more quickly to end-stage renal disease, including:
Diabetes with poor blood sugar control
Kidney disease that affects the glomeruli, the structures in the kidneys that filter wastes from the blood
Polycystic kidney disease
High blood pressure
Tobacco use
Black, Hispanic, Asian, Pacific Islander or American Indian heritage
Family history of kidney failure
Older age
Frequent use of medications that could be damaging to the kidney
Complications for End-stage renal disease:
Kidney damage, once it occurs, can't be reversed. Potential complications can affect almost any part of your body and can include:
Fluid retention, which could lead to swelling in your arms and legs, high blood pressure, or fluid in your lungs (pulmonary edema)
A sudden rise in potassium levels in your blood (hyperkalemia), which could impair your heart's ability to function and may be life-threatening
Heart disease
Weak bones and an increased risk of bone fractures
Anemia
Decreased sex drive, erectile dysfunction or reduced fertility
Damage to your central nervous system, which can cause difficulty concentrating, personality changes or seizures
Decreased immune response, which makes you more vulnerable to infection
Pericarditis, an inflammation of the saclike membrane that envelops your heart (pericardium)
Pregnancy complications that carry risks for the mother and the developing fetus
Malnutrition
Irreversible damage to your kidneys (end-stage kidney disease), eventually requiring either dialysis or a kidney transplant for survival
Preventions for End-stage renal disease
If you have kidney disease, you may be able to slow its progress by making healthy lifestyle choices:
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight
Be active most days
Limit protein and eat a balanced diet of nutritious, low-sodium foods
Control your blood pressure
Take your medications as prescribed
Have your cholesterol levels checked every year
Control your blood sugar level
Don't smoke or use tobacco products
Get regular checkups
Condition name:Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia)
Overview of Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia):
Gynecomastia (guy-nuh-koh-MAS-tee-uh) is an increase in the amount of breast gland tissue in boys or men. An imbalance of the hormones estrogen and testosterone causes it. Gynecomastia can affect one or both breasts, sometimes unevenly.
Pseudogynecomastia is an increase in fat but not gland tissue in male breasts.
Newborns, boys going through puberty and older men may develop gynecomastia due to natural changes in hormone levels. There are other causes too.
Most often, gynecomastia isn't a serious problem. But it can be tough to cope with the condition. People with gynecomastia sometimes have pain in their breasts. And they may feel embarrassed.
Gynecomastia may go away on its own. If it doesn't, medicine or surgery may help.
There are no home remedies available for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia) :
Gynecomastia symptoms can include:
Pain, especially in teenagers.
Swollen breast tissue.
Tender breasts.
Sensitive nipples when they rub against clothes.
Causes for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia) :
In people assigned male at birth, the body mainly makes the sex hormone testosterone. It also makes small amounts of the hormone estrogen. Gynecomastia can happen when the amount of testosterone in the body drops compared with estrogen. The decrease can be caused by conditions that lower testosterone or block its effects. Or it can be caused by conditions that raise the estrogen level.
Some things that can change the body's hormone balance include the following:
Risk Factors for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia):
Risk factors for gynecomastia include:
Puberty.
Older age.
Obesity.
Use of anabolic steroids to improve athletic performance.
Certain health conditions. These include liver and kidney disease, thyroid disease, Klinefelter syndrome and some tumors.
Complications for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia):
Gynecomastia has few physical complications. But it may lead to mental health concerns due to changes in how the chest looks.
Preventions for Enlarged breasts in men (gynecomastia)
Several factors within your control may lower the risk of gynecomastia:
Don't use drugs. Examples include anabolic steroids, amphetamines, heroin and marijuana.
Limit or stay away from alcohol. It helps not to drink alcohol. If you do drink, do so in moderation. That means no more than two drinks a day for men.
Condition name:Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly)
Overview of Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly):
Your spleen is an organ that sits just below your left rib cage. Many conditions — including infections, liver disease and some cancers — can cause an enlarged spleen. An enlarged spleen is also known as splenomegaly (spleh-no-MEG-uh-lee).
An enlarged spleen usually doesn't cause symptoms. It's often discovered during a routine physical exam. A doctor usually can't feel the spleen in an adult unless it's enlarged. Imaging and blood tests can help identify the cause of an enlarged spleen.
Treatment for an enlarged spleen depends on what's causing it. Surgery to remove an enlarged spleen usually isn't needed, but sometimes it's recommended.
Home Remedies for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly):
Avoid contact sports â€” such as soccer, football and hockey â€” and limit other activities as recommended to reduce the risk of a ruptured spleen.
It's also important to wear a seat belt. If you're in a car accident, a seat belt can help protect your spleen.
Finally, be sure to keep your vaccinations up to date because your risk of infection is increased. That means at least an annual flu shot, and a tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis booster every 10 years. Ask your doctor if you need other vaccines.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) :
An enlarged spleen typically causes no signs or symptoms, but sometimes it causes:
Pain or fullness in the left upper belly that can spread to the left shoulder
A feeling of fullness without eating or after eating a small amount because the spleen is pressing on your stomach
Low red blood cells (anemia)
Frequent infections
Bleeding easily
Causes for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) :
A number of infections and diseases can cause an enlarged spleen. The enlargement might be temporary, depending on treatment. Contributing factors include:
Viral infections, such as mononucleosis
Bacterial infections, such as syphilis or an infection of your heart's inner lining (endocarditis)
Parasitic infections, such as malaria
Cirrhosis and other diseases affecting the liver
Various types of hemolytic anemia — a condition characterized by early destruction of red blood cells
Blood cancers, such as leukemia and myeloproliferative neoplasms, and lymphomas, such as Hodgkin's disease
Metabolic disorders, such as Gaucher disease and Niemann-Pick disease
Pressure on the veins in the spleen or liver or a blood clot in these veins
Autoimmune conditions, such as lupus or sarcoidosis
Risk Factors for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly):
Anyone can develop an enlarged spleen at any age, but certain groups are at higher risk, including:
Children and young adults with infections, such as mononucleosis
People who have Gaucher disease, Niemann-Pick disease, and several other inherited metabolic disorders affecting the liver and spleen
People who live in or travel to areas where malaria is common
Complications for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly):
Potential complications of an enlarged spleen are:
Infection. An enlarged spleen can reduce the number of healthy red blood cells, platelets and white cells in your bloodstream, leading to more frequent infections. Anemia and increased bleeding also are possible.
Ruptured spleen. Even healthy spleens are soft and easily damaged, especially in car crashes. The possibility of rupture is much greater when your spleen is enlarged. A ruptured spleen can cause life-threatening bleeding in your belly.
There are no preventive measures available for Enlarged spleen (splenomegaly) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Entropion
Overview of Entropion:
Entropion (en-TROH-pee-on) is a condition in which your eyelid turns inward so that your eyelashes and skin rub against the eye surface. This causes irritation and discomfort.
When you have entropion, your eyelid may be turned in all the time or only when you blink hard or squeeze your eyelids shut. Entropion is more common in older adults, and it generally affects only the lower eyelid.
Artificial tears and lubricating ointments can help relieve symptoms of entropion. But usually surgery is needed to fully correct the condition. Left untreated, entropion can cause damage to the transparent covering in the front part of your eye (cornea), eye infections and vision loss.
Home Remedies for Entropion:
To relieve the symptoms of entropion until you have surgery, you can try:
Eye lubricants. Artificial tears and eye ointments help protect your cornea and keep it lubricated.
Skin tape. Special transparent skin tape can be applied to your eyelid to keep it from turning in. Place one end of the tape near your lower eyelashes, then pull down gently and attach the other end of the tape to your upper cheek. Ask your doctor to demonstrate proper technique and placement of the tape.
Symptoms for Entropion :
The signs and symptoms of entropion result from the friction of your eyelashes and outer eyelid against the surface of your eye. You may experience:
The feeling that something is in your eye
Eye redness
Eye irritation or pain
Sensitivity to light and wind
Watery eyes (excessive tearing)
Mucous discharge and eyelid crusting
Causes for Entropion :
Entropion can be caused by:
Muscle weakness. As you age, the muscles under your eyes tend to weaken, and the tendons stretch out. This is the most common cause of entropion.
Scars or previous surgeries. Skin scarred by chemical burns, trauma or surgery can distort the normal curve of the eyelid.
Eye infection. An eye infection called trachoma is common in many developing countries of Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Pacific Islands. It can cause scarring of the inner eyelid, leading to entropion and even blindness.
Inflammation. An irritation of the eye caused by dryness or inflammation can lead you to try to relieve the symptoms by rubbing the eyelids or squeezing them shut. This can lead to a spasm of the eyelid muscles and a rolling of the edge of the lid inward against the cornea (spastic entropion).
Developmental complication. When entropion is present at birth (congenital), it may be caused by an extra fold of skin on the eyelid that causes turned-in eyelashes.
Risk Factors for Entropion:
Factors that increase your risk of developing entropion include:
Age. The older you are, the greater your chances of developing the condition.
Previous burns or trauma. If you've had a burn or other injury on your face, the resulting scar tissue may put you at higher risk of developing entropion.
Trachoma infection. Because trachoma can scar the inner eyelids, people who have had this infection are more likely to develop entropion.
Complications for Entropion:
Corneal irritation and injury are the most serious complications related to entropion because they can lead to permanent vision loss.
Preventions for Entropion
Generally, entropion isn't preventable. You may be able to prevent the type caused by trachoma infection. If your eyes become red and irritated after you visit an area where trachoma infection is common, seek evaluation and treatment immediately.
Condition name:Eosinophilic esophagitis
Overview of Eosinophilic esophagitis:
Eosinophilic esophagitis (e-o-sin-o-FILL-ik uh-sof-uh-JIE-tis) is a chronic immune system disease. With this disease, a type of white blood cell, called an eosinophil, builds up in the lining of the tube that connects your mouth to your stomach. This tube is also called the esophagus. This buildup, which is a reaction to foods, allergens or acid reflux, can inflame or injure the esophageal tissue. Damaged esophageal tissue can lead to difficulty swallowing or cause food to get stuck when you swallow.
Eosinophilic esophagitis has been identified only since the early '90s, but is now considered a major cause of digestive system illness. Research is ongoing and will likely lead to revisions in the diagnosis and treatment of eosinophilic esophagitis.
Home Remedies for Eosinophilic esophagitis:
If you often have heartburn, these lifestyle changes may help reduce the frequency or severity of symptoms:
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your belly, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus. If your weight is at a healthy level, work to maintain it. If you are overweight or obese, work to slowly lose weight â€” no more than 1 or 2 pounds (0.5 to 1 kilogram) a week. Ask your provider for help in creating a weight-loss strategy that will work for you.
Avoid foods and drinks that trigger heartburn. Common triggers, such as fatty or fried foods, tomato sauce, alcohol, chocolate, mint, garlic, onion, and caffeine, may make heartburn worse. Avoid foods that you know will trigger your heartburn.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn at night or while trying to sleep, put gravity to work for you. Place wood or cement blocks under the feet of your bed so that the head end is raised by 6 to 9 inches (152 to 228 millimeters). If it's not possible to elevate your bed, insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up.
Symptoms for Eosinophilic esophagitis :
Signs and symptoms include:
Adults:
Difficulty swallowing, also called dysphagia
Food getting stuck in the esophagus after swallowing, also known as impaction
Chest pain that is often centrally located and does not respond to antacids
Backflow of undigested food, known as regurgitation
Children:
Difficulty feeding, in infants
Difficulty eating, in children
Vomiting
Abdominal pain
Difficulty swallowing, also called dysphagia
Food getting stuck in the esophagus after swallowing, also known as impaction
No response to GERD medication
Failure to thrive, including poor growth, malnutrition and weight loss
Causes for Eosinophilic esophagitis :
Eosinophils are a typical type of white blood cells present in your digestive tract. However, in eosinophilic esophagitis, you have an allergic reaction to an outside substance. The reaction may occur as follows:
Reaction of the esophagus. The lining of your esophagus reacts to allergens, such as food or pollen.
Multiplication of eosinophils. The eosinophils multiply in your esophagus and produce a protein that causes inflammation.
Damage to the esophagus. Inflammation can lead to scarring, narrowing and formation of excessive fibrous tissue in the lining of your esophagus.
Dysphagia and impaction. You may have difficulty swallowing, called dysphagia. Or food may become stuck when you swallow. This is known as impaction.
Additional symptoms. You may have other symptoms, such as chest pain or stomach pain.
There has been a significant increase in numbers of people diagnosed with eosinophilic esophagitis in the past decade. At first, researchers thought this was due to an increase in awareness among health care providers and greater availability of tests. However, studies now suggest that the disease is becoming increasingly common, parallel to the increase in asthma and allergies.
Risk Factors for Eosinophilic esophagitis:
The following risk factors are associated with eosinophilic esophagitis:
Climate. People who live in a cold or dry climate are more likely than those in other climates to be diagnosed with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Season. You're more likely to be diagnosed between the spring and fall, probably because levels of pollen and other allergens are higher and people are more likely to be outdoors.
Sex. Eosinophilic esophagitis is more common in males than in females.
Family history. Researchers think that eosinophilic esophagitis may have a genetic component because the condition sometimes runs in families. If your family members have eosinophilic esophagitis, you have a greater chance of being diagnosed.
Allergies and asthma. If you have food or environmental allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or a chronic respiratory disease, you're more likely to be diagnosed with eosinophilic esophagitis.
Age. Originally, eosinophilic esophagitis was thought to be a childhood disease, but now it is known to be common in adults as well. The symptoms differ somewhat between children and adults.
Complications for Eosinophilic esophagitis:
In some people, eosinophilic esophagitis can lead to the following:
Scarring and narrowing of the esophagus. This makes it difficult to swallow and more likely that you will have food get stuck.
Damage to the esophagus. Because of inflammation of the esophagus, endoscopy can cause perforation or tears in the tissue that lines the esophagus. Tearing also can occur in connection with retching that some people experience when they get food stuck in the esophagus.
There are no preventive measures available for Eosinophilic esophagitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ependymoma
Overview of Ependymoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Ependymoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ependymoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Ependymoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Ependymoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Ependymoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ependymoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Epidermoid cysts
Overview of Epidermoid cysts:
Epidermoid (ep-ih-DUR-moid) cysts are harmless small bumps beneath the skin. They are most common on the face, neck and trunk.
Epidermoid cysts are slow growing and often painless, so they rarely cause problems or need treatment. You might choose to have a cyst removed if it bothers you, breaks open, or is painful or infected.
Home Remedies for Epidermoid cysts:
You can't stop epidermoid cysts from forming. But you can help prevent scarring and infection by:
Not squeezing a cyst yourself
Placing a warm, moist cloth over the area to help the cyst drain and heal
Symptoms for Epidermoid cysts :
Epidermoid cyst signs and symptoms include:
A small, round bump under the skin, often on the face, neck or trunk
A tiny blackhead plugging the central opening of the cyst
A thick, smelly, cheesy substance that leaks from the cyst
An inflamed or infected bump
Causes for Epidermoid cysts :
The surface of the skin, also called the epidermis, is made up of a thin, protective layer of cells that the body sheds nonstop. Most epidermoid cysts form when these cells move deeper into the skin rather than shed. Sometimes this type of cyst forms due to irritation or injury of the skin or a hair follicle.
Epidermal cells form the walls of the cyst and then secrete the protein keratin into it. Keratin is the thick, cheesy substance that can leak from the cyst.
Risk Factors for Epidermoid cysts:
Anyone can develop an epidermoid cyst, but these factors make it more likely:
Being past puberty.
Having a rare, inherited condition called Gardner syndrome.
Injuring the skin.
Complications for Epidermoid cysts:
Potential complications of epidermoid cysts include:
Inflammation. An epidermoid cyst can become painful and swollen, even if it's not infected. An inflamed cyst is hard to remove. Your doctor is likely to postpone removing a cyst until the inflammation subsides.
Rupture. A cyst that breaks open can lead to a boil-like infection that needs prompt treatment.
Skin cancer. In rare cases, epidermoid cysts can lead to skin cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Epidermoid cysts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Epidermolysis bullosa
Overview of Epidermolysis bullosa:
Epidermolysis bullosa (ep-ih-dur-MOL-uh-sis buhl-LOE-sah) is a rare condition that causes fragile, blistering skin. The blisters may appear in response to minor injury, even from heat, rubbing or scratching. In severe cases, the blisters may occur inside the body, such as the lining of the mouth or stomach.
Epidermolysis bullosa is inherited, and it usually shows up in infants or young children. Some people don't develop symptoms until they're teens or young adults.
Epidermolysis bullosa has no cure, but mild forms may improve with age. Treatment focuses on caring for blisters and preventing new ones.
Home Remedies for Epidermolysis bullosa:
You can take steps at home to care for blisters and prevent new ones from forming. Talk with your health care provider about how to care for wounds and provide good nutrition.
Caring for blisters
Your health care provider can show you how to care for blisters properly and advise you on ways to prevent them. Ask about safe ways to drain blisters before they get too large. Ask about recommended products for keeping the affected areas moist. This helps with healing and preventing infection.
In general, take these steps:
Wash your hands. Wash your hands before touching blisters or changing dressings.
Control pain. About 30 minutes before a dressing change or other painful procedure, older children and adults may take a prescription-strength pain medication. For people who don't respond to pain relievers, other options include antiseizure drugs such as gabapentin.
Cleanse skin daily. To cleanse a wound, soak it for 5 to 10 minutes in a mild solution of salt and water. Other options are mild solutions of diluted vinegar or bleach. Soaking loosens stuck bandages and helps reduce the pain of changing bandages. Rinse with lukewarm water.
Puncture new blisters. This prevents them from spreading. Use a sterile needle to puncture each new blister in two spots. But leave the roof of the blister intact to allow for drainage while protecting the underlying skin.
Apply treated dressings. Spread petroleum jelly or other thick moisturizer on a nonstick bandage (Mepilex, Telfa, Vaseline gauze). Then gently place the bandage on the wound. Secure the bandage with rolled gauze if needed.
Wrap blistered hands and feet daily. With some severe forms of this condition, daily wraps help prevent contractures and fusion of the fingers and toes. Special wraps and gauze dressings are useful for this treatment.
Watch for signs of infection. If you notice heat, pus or lines leading from the blister, talk with your health care provider about prescription antibiotics.
Keep it cool. Blistering is often worsened by heat and warm conditions.
Providing good nutrition
A varied, nutritious diet promotes growth and development in children and helps wounds heal. If blisters in the mouth or throat make it difficult to eat, here are some suggestions:
For babies with mild epidermolysis bullosa, breastfeeding is fine. Otherwise, minimize injury from feeding by using bottle nipples designed for premature infants, a syringe or a rubber-tipped medicine dropper. Try softening bottle nipples in warm boiled water.
For older children, serve nutritious, soft foods that are easy to swallow, such as vegetable soup and fruit smoothies. Puree solid foods with broth or milk.
Serve food and beverages lukewarm, at room temperature or cold.
Talk with your health care provider about how you or your child can get all the needed nutrients and vitamins.
Symptoms for Epidermolysis bullosa :
Epidermolysis bullosa symptoms include:
Fragile skin that blisters easily, especially on the palms and feet
Nails that are thick or unformed
Blisters inside the mouth and throat
Scalp blistering and hair loss (scarring alopecia)
Skin that looks thin
Tiny pimple-like bumps (milia)
Dental problems, such as tooth decay
Difficulty swallowing
Itchy, painful skin
Usually epidermolysis bullosa blisters are noticed during infancy. But it's not uncommon for them to appear when a toddler first begins to walk or when an older child begins new activities that cause more friction on the soles of the feet.
Causes for Epidermolysis bullosa :
Epidermolysis bullosa is caused by an inherited gene. You may inherit the disease gene from one parent who has the disease (autosomal dominant inheritance) or from both parents (autosomal recessive inheritance).
The skin is made up of an outer layer (epidermis) and an underlying layer (dermis). The area where the layers meet is called the basement membrane. The types of epidermolysis bullosa are mainly defined by which layers separate and form blisters. The skin injury might be brought on by a minor injury, bump or nothing at all.
The main types of epidermolysis bullosa are:
Epidermolysis bullosa simplex. This is the most common type. It's brought on by heat and friction and develops in the outer layer of skin. It mainly affects the palms and feet. The blisters heal without scarring.
Junctional epidermolysis bullosa. This type may be severe, with blisters beginning in infancy. A baby with this condition may develop a hoarse-sounding cry from continual blistering and scarring of the vocal cords.
Dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa. This type is related to a flaw in the gene that helps produce a protein that glues the skin layers together. If this protein is missing or doesn't function, the layers of the skin won't join properly. It can cause skin that looks thin. Diseased mucous membranes can cause constipation and make it hard to eat.
Kindler syndrome. This type tends to cause blisters in multiple layers and so can look very different from person to person. The blisters tend to show up in infancy or early childhood. It increases sun sensitivity and causes skin to look thin, mottled and wrinkly.
Epidermolysis bullosa acquisita is distinct from these conditions, as it isn't inherited and it's rare in children.
Risk Factors for Epidermolysis bullosa:
The major risk factor for developing epidermolysis bullosa is having a family history of the disorder.
Complications for Epidermolysis bullosa:
Epidermolysis bullosa can worsen even with treatment, so it's important to spot signs of complications early. Complications may include:
Infection. Blistering skin can become infected by bacteria.
Bloodstream infection. Sepsis occurs when bacteria from an infection enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body. Sepsis can spread rapidly and lead to shock and organ failure.
Fusion of fingers and changes in the joints. Severe forms of epidermolysis bullosa can bind together fingers or toes and cause unusual bending of the joints (contractures). This can affect the function of the fingers, knees and elbows.
Problems with nutrition. Blisters in the mouth can make eating difficult and lead to malnutrition and anemia, such as low iron levels in the blood. Problems with nutrition can also cause delayed wound healing and slowed growth in children.
Constipation. Difficulty passing stool may be due to painful blisters in the anal area. It can also be caused by not ingesting enough liquids or high-fiber foods, such as fruits and vegetables.
Dental problems. Tooth decay and problems with tissues inside the mouth are common with some types of epidermolysis bullosa.
Skin cancer. Teenagers and adults with certain types of epidermolysis bullosa are at increased risk of a type of skin cancer called squamous cell carcinoma.
Death. Infants with severe junctional epidermolysis bullosa are at high risk of infections and loss of body fluids from widespread blistering. Blisters in the mouth and throat also make it harder to eat and breathe. Many of these infants don't survive.
Preventions for Epidermolysis bullosa
It's not possible to prevent epidermolysis bullosa. But these steps may help prevent blisters and infection.
Handle your child gently. Your infant or child needs cuddling, but be very gentle. To pick up a child with epidermolysis bullosa, place the child on soft material and give support under the buttocks and behind the neck. Don't lift the child from under the arms.
Take special care with the diaper area. If your child wears diapers, remove the elastic bands and avoid cleansing wipes. Line the diaper with a nonstick dressing or spread it with a thick layer of zinc oxide paste.
Keep the home environment cool. Try to keep your home cool and the temperature steady.
Keep the skin moist. Gently apply moisturizer as needed throughout the day.
Dress your child in soft clothes. Use soft clothing that's simple to get on and off. It may help to remove labels and put on clothing seam-side out to reduce scratching. Try sewing foam pads into the lining of clothing by elbows, knees and other pressure points. Use soft special shoes, if possible.
Prevent scratching. Trim your child's fingernails regularly.
Encourage your child to be active. As your child grows, encourage activities that reduce the risk of skin injury. Swimming is a good option. For children with mild forms of epidermolysis bullosa, they can protect the skin by wearing long pants and sleeves for outdoor activities.
Cover hard surfaces. Consider padding a car seat or bathing tub with sheepskin, foam or a thick towel. Soft cotton or silk can be used as a top layer over the padding.
Condition name:Epididymitis
Overview of Epididymitis:
Epididymitis (ep-ih-did-uh-MY-tis) is an inflammation of the coiled tube, called the epididymis, at the back of the testicle. The epididymis stores and carries sperm. Males of any age can get epididymitis.
Epididymitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection, including sexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as gonorrhea or chlamydia. Sometimes, a testicle also becomes inflamed — a condition called epididymo-orchitis.
Epididymitis is usually treated with antibiotics and measures to relieve discomfort.
Home Remedies for Epididymitis:
Epididymitis often causes a lot of pain. Try these tips to ease your discomfort:
Rest in bed.
Lie down so that your scrotum is elevated.
Apply cold packs to your scrotum as tolerated.
Wear an athletic supporter.
Avoid lifting heavy objects.
Avoid sex until your infection has cleared.
Symptoms for Epididymitis :
Symptoms of epididymitis might include:
A swollen, discolored or warm scrotum
Testicle pain and tenderness, usually on one side, that often comes on slowly
Pain when you pass urine
An urgent or frequent need to urinate
Discharge from the penis
Pain or discomfort in the lower abdomen or pelvic area
Blood in the semen
Less commonly, fever
Causes for Epididymitis :
Causes of epididymitis include:
STIs. Gonorrhea and chlamydia are the most common causes of epididymitis in young, sexually active males.
Other infections. Bacteria from a urinary tract or prostate infection might spread from the infected site to the epididymis. Also, viral infections, such as the mumps virus, can result in epididymitis.
Urine in the epididymis. This condition occurs when urine flows backward into the epididymis, causing chemical irritation. It may be the result of heavy lifting or straining.
Trauma. A groin injury can cause epididymitis.
Tuberculosis. Rarely, epididymitis can be caused by tuberculosis infection.
Risk Factors for Epididymitis:
Certain sexual behaviors that can lead to STIs put you at risk of sexually transmitted epididymitis, including having:
Sex with a partner who has an STI
Sex without a condom
Anal sex
A history of STIs
Risk factors for epididymitis that's not sexually transmitted include:
Having a prostate or urinary tract infection
Having a medical procedure done that affects the urinary tract, such as insertion of a urinary catheter or scope into the penis
An uncircumcised penis
A difference in the typical anatomy of the urinary tract
Prostate enlargement, which increases the risk of bladder infections and epididymitis
Other health conditions that cause a weakened immune system, such as HIV
Complications for Epididymitis:
Complications of epididymitis include:
Pus-filled infection, called an abscess, in the scrotum
Collection of fluid around the testicle, called a hydrocele
Epididymo-orchitis, if the condition spreads from the epididymis to a testicle
Rarely, reduced fertility
Preventions for Epididymitis
To help protect against STIs that can cause epididymitis, practice safer sex.
If you have recurrent urinary tract infections or other risk factors for epididymitis, your health care provider might talk with you about other ways you can help prevent the condition.
Condition name:Epiglottitis
Overview of Epiglottitis:
Epiglottitis happens when the epiglottis — a small cartilage "lid" that covers the windpipe — swells. The swelling blocks the flow of air into the lungs. Epiglottitis can be deadly.
Many factors can cause the epiglottis to swell. These factors include infections, burns from hot liquids and injuries to the throat.
Epiglottitis can happen at any age. Once, mainly children got it. The most common cause of epiglottitis in children was infection with Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) bacteria. The bacterium also causes pneumonia, meningitis and blood infections.
Routine Hib vaccination for infants has made epiglottitis rare in children. It's now more common in adults. The condition needs quick care to prevent deadly complications.
There are no home remedies available for Epiglottitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Epiglottitis :
Not found
Causes for Epiglottitis :
An infection or injury causes epiglottitis.
Risk Factors for Epiglottitis:
Some factors increase the risk of getting epiglottitis, including:
Having a weakened immune system. An immune system weakened by illness or medicines can be more likely to get bacterial infections that may cause epiglottitis.
Not being fully vaccinated. Skipping vaccinations or not getting them on time can leave a child open to Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) and increase the risk of epiglottitis.
Complications for Epiglottitis:
Epiglottitis can cause many complications, including:
Breathing failure. The epiglottis is a small, movable "lid" just above the larynx that prevents food and drink from entering the windpipe. Swelling of the epiglottis can completely block the airway.
This can lead to breathing or respiratory failure. In this life-threatening condition, the level of oxygen in the blood drops very low.
Spreading infection. Sometimes the bacteria that cause epiglottitis cause infections in other parts of the body. Infections can include pneumonia, meningitis or a bloodstream infection.
There are no preventive measures available for Epiglottitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Epilepsy
Overview of Epilepsy:
Epilepsy — also known as a seizure disorder — is a brain condition that causes recurring seizures. There are many types of epilepsy. In some people, the cause can be identified. In others, the cause is not known.
Epilepsy is common. It's estimated that 1.2% of people in the United States have active epilepsy, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Epilepsy affects people of all genders, races, ethnic backgrounds and ages.
Seizure symptoms can vary widely. Some people may lose awareness during a seizure while others don't. Some people stare blankly for a few seconds during a seizure. Others may repeatedly twitch their arms or legs, movements known as convulsions.
Having a single seizure doesn't mean you have epilepsy. Epilepsy is diagnosed if you've had at least two unprovoked seizures at least 24 hours apart. Unprovoked seizures don't have a clear cause.
Treatment with medicines or sometimes surgery can control seizures for most people with epilepsy. Some people require lifelong treatment. For others, seizures go away. Some children with epilepsy may outgrow the condition with age.
Home Remedies for Epilepsy:
Understanding your condition can help you take better control of it:
Take your medicine correctly. Don't adjust your dosage before talking to a member of your healthcare team. If you feel that your medicine should be changed, talk with your healthcare professional.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency staff know how to treat you correctly.
Exercise. Exercising may help keep you physically healthy and reduce depression. Make sure to drink enough water, and rest if you get tired during exercise.
In addition, make healthy life choices. Manage stress, limit alcohol and don't smoke cigarettes.
Symptoms for Epilepsy :
Seizure symptoms vary depending on the type of seizure. Because epilepsy is caused by certain activity in the brain, seizures can affect any brain process. Seizure symptoms may include:
Temporary confusion.
A staring spell.
Stiff muscles.
Uncontrollable jerking movements of the arms and legs.
Loss of consciousness.
Psychological symptoms such as fear, anxiety or deja vu.
Sometimes people with epilepsy may have changes in their behavior. They also may have symptoms of psychosis.
Most people with epilepsy tend to have the same type of seizure each time. Symptoms are usually similar from episode to episode.
Causes for Epilepsy :
Epilepsy has no identifiable cause in about half the people with the condition. In the other half, the condition may be traced to various factors, including:
Genetic influence. Some types of epilepsy run in families. In these instances, it's likely that there's a genetic influence. Researchers have linked some types of epilepsy to specific genes. But some people have genetic epilepsy that isn't hereditary. Genetic changes can occur in a child without being passed down from a parent.
For most people, genes are only part of the cause of epilepsy. Certain genes may make a person more sensitive to environmental conditions that trigger seizures.
Head trauma. Head trauma as a result of a car accident or other traumatic injury can cause epilepsy.
Factors in the brain. Brain tumors can cause epilepsy. Epilepsy also may be caused by the way blood vessels form in the brain. People with blood vessel conditions such as arteriovenous malformations and cavernous malformations can have seizures. And in adults older than age 35, stroke is a leading cause of epilepsy.
Infections. Meningitis, HIV, viral encephalitis and some parasitic infections can cause epilepsy.
Injury before birth. Before they're born, babies are sensitive to brain damage that could be caused by several factors. They might include an infection in the mother, poor nutrition or not enough oxygen. This brain damage can result in epilepsy or cerebral palsy.
Developmental conditions. Epilepsy can sometimes occur with developmental conditions. People with autism are more likely to have epilepsy than are people without autism. Research also has found that people with epilepsy are more likely to have attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and other developmental conditions. Having both conditions may be related to genes.
Risk Factors for Epilepsy:
Certain factors may increase your risk of epilepsy:
Age. The onset of epilepsy is most common in children and older adults, but the condition can occur at any age.
Family history. If you have a family history of epilepsy, you may be at an increased risk of seizures.
Head injuries. Head injuries are responsible for some cases of epilepsy. You can reduce your risk by wearing a seat belt while riding in a car. Also wear a helmet while bicycling, skiing, riding a motorcycle or doing any activities with a high risk of head injury.
Stroke and other vascular diseases. Stroke and other blood vessel diseases can cause brain damage. Brain damage may trigger seizures and epilepsy. You can take steps to reduce your risk of these diseases. Limit alcohol, don't smoke, eat a healthy diet and exercise regularly.
Dementia. Dementia can increase the risk of epilepsy in older adults.
Brain infections. Infections such as meningitis, which causes inflammation in the brain or spinal cord, can increase your risk.
Seizures in childhood. High fevers in childhood can sometimes be associated with seizures. Children who have seizures due to high fevers generally won't develop epilepsy. The risk of epilepsy increases if a child has a long fever-associated seizure, another nervous system condition or a family history of epilepsy.
Complications for Epilepsy:
Having a seizure at certain times can be dangerous to yourself or others.
Falling. If you fall during a seizure, you can injure your head or break a bone.
Drowning. People with epilepsy are 13 to 19 times more likely to drown while swimming or bathing than people without epilepsy. The risk is higher because you might have a seizure while in the water.
Car accidents. A seizure that causes either loss of awareness or control can be dangerous if you're driving a car or operating other equipment.
Many states have driver's license restrictions related to a driver's ability to control seizures. In these states, there is a minimum amount of time that a driver must be seizure-free before being cleared to drive. The amount of time may range from months to years.
Trouble with sleep. People who have epilepsy may have trouble falling asleep or staying asleep, known as insomnia.
Pregnancy complications. Seizures during pregnancy pose dangers to both mother and baby. Also, certain anti-seizure medicines increase the risk of birth defects. If you have epilepsy and you're considering becoming pregnant, get medical help as you plan your pregnancy.
Most women with epilepsy can become pregnant and have healthy babies. You need to be carefully monitored throughout pregnancy. Your medicines may need to be adjusted. It's very important that you work with your healthcare team to plan your pregnancy.
Memory loss. People with some types of epilepsy have trouble with memory.
There are no preventive measures available for Epilepsy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Epithelioid sarcoma
Overview of Epithelioid sarcoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Epithelioid sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Epithelioid sarcoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Epithelioid sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Epithelioid sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Epithelioid sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Epithelioid sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Erectile dysfunction
Overview of Erectile dysfunction:
Erectile dysfunction (impotence) is the inability to get and keep an erection firm enough for sex.
Having erection trouble from time to time isn't necessarily a cause for concern. If erectile dysfunction is an ongoing issue, however, it can cause stress, affect your self-confidence and contribute to relationship problems. Problems getting or keeping an erection can also be a sign of an underlying health condition that needs treatment and a risk factor for heart disease.
If you're concerned about erectile dysfunction, talk to your doctor — even if you're embarrassed. Sometimes, treating an underlying condition is enough to reverse erectile dysfunction. In other cases, medications or other direct treatments might be needed.
Home Remedies for Erectile dysfunction:
For many people, erectile dysfunction is caused or worsened by lifestyle choices. Here are some steps that might help:
If you smoke, quit. If you have trouble quitting, get help. Try nicotine replacement, such as over-the-counter gum or lozenges, or ask your doctor about a prescription medication that can help you quit.
Lose excess pounds. Being overweight can cause â€” or worsen â€” erectile dysfunction.
Include physical activity in your daily routine. Exercise can help with underlying conditions that play a part in erectile dysfunction in a number of ways, including reducing stress, helping you lose weight and increasing blood flow.
Get treatment for alcohol or drug problems. Drinking too much or taking certain illegal drugs can worsen erectile dysfunction directly or by causing long-term health problems.
Work through relationship issues. Consider couples counseling if you're having trouble improving communication with your partner or working through problems on your own.
Symptoms for Erectile dysfunction :
Erectile dysfunction symptoms might include persistent:
Trouble getting an erection
Trouble keeping an erection
Reduced sexual desire
Causes for Erectile dysfunction :
Male sexual arousal is a complex process that involves the brain, hormones, emotions, nerves, muscles and blood vessels. Erectile dysfunction can result from a problem with any of these. Likewise, stress and mental health concerns can cause or worsen erectile dysfunction.
Sometimes a combination of physical and psychological issues causes erectile dysfunction. For instance, a minor physical condition that slows your sexual response might cause anxiety about maintaining an erection. The resulting anxiety can lead to or worsen erectile dysfunction.
Risk Factors for Erectile dysfunction:
As you get older, erections might take longer to develop and might not be as firm. You might need more direct touch to your penis to get and keep an erection.
Various risk factors can contribute to erectile dysfunction, including:
Medical conditions, particularly diabetes or heart conditions
Tobacco use, which restricts blood flow to veins and arteries, can — over time — cause chronic health conditions that lead to erectile dysfunction
Being overweight, especially if you're obese
Certain medical treatments, such as prostate surgery or radiation treatment for cancer
Injuries, particularly if they damage the nerves or arteries that control erections
Medications, including antidepressants, antihistamines and medications to treat high blood pressure, pain or prostate conditions
Psychological conditions, such as stress, anxiety or depression
Drug and alcohol use, especially if you're a long-term drug user or heavy drinker
Complications for Erectile dysfunction:
Complications resulting from erectile dysfunction can include:
An unsatisfactory sex life
Stress or anxiety
Embarrassment or low self-esteem
Relationship problems
The inability to get your partner pregnant
Preventions for Erectile dysfunction
The best way to prevent erectile dysfunction is to make healthy lifestyle choices and to manage any existing health conditions. For example:
Work with your doctor to manage diabetes, heart disease or other chronic health conditions.
See your doctor for regular checkups and medical screening tests.
Stop smoking, limit or avoid alcohol, and don't use illegal drugs.
Exercise regularly.
Take steps to reduce stress.
Get help for anxiety, depression or other mental health concerns.
Condition name:Esophageal cancer
Overview of Esophageal cancer:
Esophageal cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the esophagus. The esophagus is a long, hollow tube that runs from the throat to the stomach. The esophagus helps move swallowed food from the back of the throat to the stomach to be digested.
Esophageal cancer usually begins in the cells that line the inside of the esophagus. Esophageal cancer can happen anywhere along the esophagus.
Esophageal cancer is more common in men. Risk factors include drinking alcohol and smoking.
Esophageal cancer treatment often involves surgery to remove the cancer. Other treatments may include chemotherapy, radiation or a combination of the two. Targeted therapy and immunotherapy also may be used.
There are no home remedies available for Esophageal cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Esophageal cancer :
Esophageal cancer may not cause symptoms early on. Symptoms of esophageal cancer usually happen when the disease is advanced.
Signs and symptoms of esophageal cancer include:
Difficulty swallowing.
Chest pain, pressure or burning.
Coughing or hoarseness.
Weight loss without trying.
Worsening indigestion or heartburn.
Causes for Esophageal cancer :
Esophageal cancer happens when cells lining the esophagus develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Esophageal cancer:
Risk factors for esophageal cancer include conditions and habits that cause irritation in the esophagus. Risk factors may include:
A steady habit of drinking very hot liquids.
Bile reflux.
Difficulty swallowing because a muscle in the esophagus won't relax, a condition called achalasia.
Drinking alcohol.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease, also called GERD.
Not eating enough fruits and vegetables.
Obesity.
Precancerous changes in the cells of the esophagus, called Barrett esophagus.
Radiation treatment to the chest or upper abdomen.
Smoking.
Complications for Esophageal cancer:
As esophageal cancer advances, it can cause complications. Complications may include:
A blockage in the esophagus. Cancer may make it difficult for food and liquid to pass through the esophagus.
Bleeding in the esophagus. Esophageal cancer can cause bleeding. Though bleeding is usually gradual, it can be sudden and severe at times.
Pain. Advanced esophageal cancer can cause pain.
Preventions for Esophageal cancer
There's no sure way to prevent esophageal cancer, but you can reduce your risk if you:
Condition name:Esophageal spasms
Overview of Esophageal spasms:
Esophageal spasms are painful contractions within the muscular tube connecting your mouth and stomach. This tube is called the esophagus. Esophageal spasms can feel like sudden, severe chest pain that lasts from a few minutes to hours. Some people may mistake it for heart pain, also called angina.
Esophageal spasms typically occur only occasionally and might not need treatment. But sometimes the spasms are frequent and can prevent food and liquids from traveling through the esophagus. If esophageal spasms interfere with your ability to eat or drink, treatments are available.
Home Remedies for Esophageal spasms:
To help you cope with occasional esophageal spasms, try to:
Avoid your triggers. Make a list of foods and beverages that cause your esophageal spasms.
Choose food that is warm or cool. Let foods and drinks that are very hot or very cold sit for a bit before eating or drinking them.
Suck a peppermint lozenge. Peppermint oil is a smooth muscle relaxant and might help ease esophageal spasms. Place the peppermint lozenge under your tongue.
Symptoms for Esophageal spasms :
Symptoms of esophageal spasms include:
Squeezing pain in your chest. The pain is often intense, and you might mistake it for heart pain, also known as angina.
Difficulty swallowing solids and liquids, sometimes related to swallowing specific substances. Red wine or extremely hot or cold liquids are more common culprits.
The feeling that an object is stuck in your throat.
The return of food and liquids back up your esophagus, also called regurgitation.
Causes for Esophageal spasms :
It's not clear what causes esophageal spasms. However, they appear to be related to atypical functioning of nerves that control the muscles you use when you swallow.
A healthy esophagus usually moves food into your stomach through a series of coordinated muscle contractions. Esophageal spasms make it difficult for the muscles in the walls of your lower esophagus to coordinate in order to move food to your stomach.
There are two types of esophageal spasms — distal esophageal spasm and hypercontractile esophagus, also referred to as jackhammer esophagus.
Risk Factors for Esophageal spasms:
There are no known risk factors for esophageal spasms.
There are no Complications available for Esophageal spasms in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Esophageal spasms in the knowledge baseCondition name:Esophageal varices
Overview of Esophageal varices:
Esophageal varices are enlarged veins in the esophagus, the tube that connects the throat and stomach. Esophageal varices most often happen in people with serious liver diseases.
Esophageal varices develop when regular blood flow to the liver is blocked by a clot or scar tissue in the liver. To go around the blockages, blood flows into smaller blood vessels that aren't designed to carry large volumes of blood. The vessels can leak blood or even burst, causing life-threatening bleeding.
A few medicines and medical procedures are available to help prevent or stop bleeding from esophageal varices.
There are no home remedies available for Esophageal varices in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Esophageal varices :
Esophageal varices usually don't cause symptoms unless they bleed. Symptoms of bleeding esophageal varices include:
Vomiting large amounts of blood.
Black, tarry or bloody stools.
Lightheadedness due to blood loss.
Loss of consciousness in severe cases.
Your doctor might suspect esophageal varices if you have signs of liver disease or been diagnosed with liver cirrhosis, including:
Yellow coloration of the skin and eyes, known as jaundice.
Easy bleeding or bruising.
Fluid buildup in the abdomen, called ascites (uh-SY-teez).
Causes for Esophageal varices :
Esophageal varices sometimes form when blood flow to your liver is blocked. This is most often caused by scar tissue in the liver due to liver disease, also known as cirrhosis of the liver. The blood flow begins to back up. This increases pressure within the large vein, known as the portal vein, that carries blood to your liver. This condition is called portal hypertension.
Portal hypertension forces the blood to seek other pathways through smaller veins, such as those in the lowest part of the esophagus. These thin-walled veins balloon with the added blood. Sometimes they rupture and bleed.
Causes of esophageal varices include:
Severe liver scarring, called cirrhosis. Several liver diseases — including hepatitis infection, alcoholic liver disease, fatty liver disease and a bile duct disorder called primary biliary cholangitis — can result in cirrhosis.
Blood clot, also called thrombosis. A blood clot in the portal vein or in a vein that feeds into the portal vein, known as the splenic vein, can cause esophageal varices.
Parasitic infection. Schistosomiasis is a parasitic infection found in parts of Africa, South America, the Caribbean, the Middle East and East Asia. The parasite can damage the liver, as well as the lungs, intestine, bladder and other organs.
Risk Factors for Esophageal varices:
Although many people with advanced liver disease develop esophageal varices, most won't have bleeding. Esophageal varices are more likely to bleed if you have:
High portal vein pressure. The risk of bleeding increases as the pressure in the portal vein increases.
Large varices. The larger the esophageal varices, the more likely they are to bleed.
Red marks on the varices. Some esophageal varices show long, red streaks or red spots. Your health care provider can see them through a thin, flexible tube, called an endoscope, passed down your throat. These marks suggest a high risk of bleeding.
Severe cirrhosis or liver failure. Most often, the more severe your liver disease, the more likely esophageal varices are to bleed.
Continued alcohol use. Your risk of variceal bleeding is far greater if you continue to drink than if you stop, especially if your disease is alcohol related.
If you've had bleeding from esophageal varices before, you're more likely to have varices that bleed again.
Complications for Esophageal varices:
The most serious complication of esophageal varices is bleeding. Once you've had a bleeding episode, your risk of another bleeding episode greatly increases. If you lose enough blood, you can go into shock, which can lead to death.
Preventions for Esophageal varices
Currently, no treatment can prevent the development of esophageal varices in people with cirrhosis. While beta blocker drugs are effective in preventing bleeding in many people who have esophageal varices, they don't prevent esophageal varices from forming.
If you've been diagnosed with liver disease, ask your health care provider about strategies to avoid liver disease complications. To keep your liver healthy:
Don't drink alcohol. People with liver disease are often advised to stop drinking alcohol, since the liver processes alcohol. Drinking alcohol may stress an already vulnerable liver.
Eat a healthy diet. Choose a diet that's full of fruits and vegetables. Select whole grains and lean sources of protein. Reduce the amount of fatty and fried foods you eat.
Maintain a healthy weight. An excess amount of body fat can damage your liver. Obesity is associated with a greater risk of complications of cirrhosis. Lose weight if you are obese or overweight.
Use chemicals sparingly and carefully. Follow the directions on household chemicals, such as cleaning supplies and insect sprays. If you work around chemicals, follow all safety precautions. Your liver removes toxins from your body, so give it a break by limiting the amount of toxins it processes.
Reduce your risk of hepatitis. Sharing needles and having unprotected sex can increase your risk of hepatitis B and C. Protect yourself by abstaining from sex or using a condom if you choose to have sex. Get tested for exposure to hepatitis A, B and C, since infection can make your liver disease worse. Also ask your health care provider whether to be vaccinated for hepatitis A and hepatitis B.
Condition name:Esophagitis
Overview of Esophagitis:
Esophagitis is swelling and irritation, called inflammation, of the tissues that line the esophagus. The esophagus is the muscular tube that carries food and drink from the mouth to the stomach.
Esophagitis (uh-sof-uh-JIE-tis) can cause painful, difficult swallowing. It also can lead to chest pain. Various things can cause esophagitis. Some common causes include stomach acids backing up into the esophagus, infection, medicines taken by mouth and allergies.
Treatment for esophagitis depends on its exact cause and how badly the tissue that lines the esophagus is damaged. Without treatment, esophagitis can damage this lining. The esophagus may start to have trouble moving food and liquid from the mouth to the stomach. Esophagitis also can lead to other serious health issues. These include scarring or narrowing of the esophagus, unhealthy weight loss, and dehydration.
Home Remedies for Esophagitis:
Depending on the type of esophagitis you have, you may lessen symptoms or stop recurring problems by following these steps:
Do not eat foods that may increase reflux. Eating or drinking large amounts of certain foods may worsen your symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux. These may include alcohol, caffeine, chocolate and mint-flavored foods.
Use good pill-taking habits. Always take a pill with plenty of water. Don't lie down for at least 30 minutes after taking a pill.
Lose weight. Talk to your health care provider about an appropriate diet and exercise routine to help you lose weight and maintain a healthy weight.
If you smoke, quit. Talk to your provider if you need help ending a smoking habit.
Try not to stoop or bend, especially soon after eating.
Do not lie down after eating. Wait at least three hours after eating to lie down or go to bed.
Raise the head of your bed. Place wooden blocks under your bed to elevate your head. Aim for an elevation of 6 to 8 inches (15 to 20 centimeters). If it's not possible to elevate your bed, insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Raising your head by using only pillows isn't effective.
Symptoms for Esophagitis :
Common symptoms of esophagitis include:
Trouble swallowing.
Painful swallowing.
Swallowed food becoming stuck in the esophagus, also known as food impaction.
Burning pain in the chest called heartburn. It's common to feel this pain behind the breastbone while eating.
Stomach acid that backs up into the esophagus, also called acid reflux.
Babies and some children with esophagitis are too young to explain their discomfort or pain. Their symptoms can include:
Feeding troubles, such as getting easily upset, arching of the back and not wanting to eat.
Failure to thrive.
Chest or belly pain in older children.
Causes for Esophagitis :
Healthcare professionals tend to label esophagitis by the condition that causes it. Sometimes, esophagitis may have more than one cause. Some of the most common types include the following:
Risk Factors for Esophagitis:
Risk factors for esophagitis vary depending on the cause of the condition.
Complications for Esophagitis:
Without treatment, esophagitis can lead to changes in the structure of the esophagus. Complications can include:
Scarring or narrowing of the esophagus, known as a stricture.
Tearing of the lining of the esophagus. This can be due to retching or to healthcare professionals passing medical tools through an inflamed esophagus during endoscopy. Endoscopy is a way for healthcare professionals to check the digestive system.
A condition called Barrett esophagus in which the cells lining the esophagus are damaged from acid reflux. This raises the risk of cancer that starts in the esophagus, also called esophageal cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Esophagitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Essential tremor
Overview of Essential tremor:
Essential tremor is a nervous system condition, also known as a neurological condition, that causes involuntary and rhythmic shaking. It can affect almost any part of the body, but the trembling occurs most often in the hands, especially when doing simple tasks, such as drinking from a glass or tying shoelaces.
Essential tremor is usually not a dangerous condition, but it typically worsens over time and can be severe in some people. Other conditions don't cause essential tremor, although essential tremor is sometimes confused with Parkinson's disease.
Essential tremor can occur at any age but is most common in people age 40 and older.
Home Remedies for Essential tremor:
To reduce or relieve tremors:
Avoid caffeine. Caffeine and other stimulants can increase tremors.
Use alcohol sparingly, if at all. Some people notice that their tremors improve slightly after they drink alcohol, but drinking isn't a good solution. Tremors tend to worsen once the effects of alcohol wear off. Also, increasing amounts of alcohol eventually are needed to relieve tremors, which can lead to alcohol use disorder.
Learn to relax. Stress and anxiety tend to make tremors worse. Being relaxed may improve tremors. You can't rid your life of all stress. But you can change how you react to stressful situations using a range of relaxation techniques, such as massage or meditation.
Make lifestyle changes. Use the hand less affected by tremor more often. Find ways to avoid writing with the hand affected by tremor, such as using online banking and debit cards instead of writing checks.
Try voice-activated commands on your smartphone and speech-recognition software on your computer.
Symptoms for Essential tremor :
Essential tremor symptoms:
Begin gradually, and usually are more noticeable on one side of the body.
Worsen with movement.
Usually occur in the hands first, affecting one hand or both hands.
Can include a "yes-yes" or "no-no" motion of the head.
May be aggravated by emotional stress, fatigue, caffeine or temperature extremes.
Causes for Essential tremor :
About half the people with essential tremor appear to have an altered gene. This form is referred to as familial tremor. It isn't clear what causes essential tremor in people who don't have familial tremor.
Risk Factors for Essential tremor:
Known risk factors for essential tremor include:
Altered gene. The inherited variety of essential tremor, known as familial tremor, is an autosomal dominant disorder. An altered gene from just one parent is needed to pass on the condition.
Anyone who has a parent with an altered gene for essential tremor has a 50% chance of developing the condition.
Age. Essential tremor is more common in people age 40 and older.
Complications for Essential tremor:
Essential tremor isn't life-threatening, but symptoms often worsen over time. If the tremors become severe, it might be difficult to:
Hold a cup or glass without spilling.
Eat without shaking.
Put on makeup or shave.
Talk, if the voice box or tongue is affected.
Write legibly.
There are no preventive measures available for Essential tremor in the knowledge baseCondition name:Esthesioneuroblastoma
Overview of Esthesioneuroblastoma:
Esthesioneuroblastoma (es-thee-zee-o-noo-row-blas-TOE-muh) is a rare type of cancer that starts in the upper part of the inside of the nose, known as the nasal cavity. Esthesioneuroblastoma also is called olfactory neuroblastoma.
This cancer usually affects adults in their 50s and 60s. But it can occur at any age. Esthesioneuroblastoma usually begins as a growth of cells, called a tumor, inside the nose. It might grow and go into the sinuses, eyes and brain. It also can spread to other parts of the body.
People with esthesioneuroblastoma can lose their sense of smell. They might get nosebleeds. And they might have trouble breathing through their nose as the tumor grows.
Esthesioneuroblastoma treatment usually includes surgery. Often, radiation and chemotherapy are part of the treatment as well.
There are no home remedies available for Esthesioneuroblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Esthesioneuroblastoma :
Esthesioneuroblastoma symptoms include:
Loss of the sense of smell.
Frequent nosebleeds.
Difficulty breathing through the nose.
As the cancer grows, it might cause eye pain, loss of vision, ear pain and headaches.
Causes for Esthesioneuroblastoma :
Experts haven't found the exact cause of esthesioneuroblastoma. In general, cancer happens when cells get changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to make many more cells quickly. The changes give the cells the ability to keep living when healthy cells would naturally die. This causes too many cells.

The cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
There are no Risk Factors available for Esthesioneuroblastoma in the knowledge baseComplications for Esthesioneuroblastoma:
Complications of esthesioneuroblastoma may include:
Cancer that grows into nearby organs and tissues. Esthesioneuroblastoma can grow and get into the sinuses, eyes and brain.
Spread of the cancer, known as metastasis. Esthesioneuroblastoma can spread to other parts of the body, such as the lymph nodes, bone marrow, lungs, liver, skin and bones.
There are no preventive measures available for Esthesioneuroblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ewing sarcoma
Overview of Ewing sarcoma:
Ewing sarcoma is a type of cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the bones and the soft tissue around the bones. Ewing (Yoo-ing) sarcoma mostly happens in children and young adults, although it can happen at any age.
Ewing sarcoma most often begins in the leg bones and in the pelvis, but it can happen in any bone. Less often, it starts in the soft tissues of the chest, abdomen, arms or other locations.
Major advances in the treatment of Ewing sarcoma have improved the outlook for this cancer. Young people diagnosed with Ewing sarcoma are living longer. They sometimes face late effects from the strong treatments. Healthcare professionals often suggest long-term monitoring for side effects after treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Ewing sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ewing sarcoma :
Ewing sarcoma signs and symptoms typically start in and around a bone. This cancer most often affects bones in the legs and the pelvis.
When symptoms happen in and around a bone, they might include:
A lump in the arm, leg, chest or pelvis.
Bone pain.
Break in a bone, also called a fracture.
Pain, swelling or tenderness near the affected area.
Sometimes Ewing sarcoma causes symptoms that affect the whole body. These can include:
Fever.
Losing weight without trying.
Tiredness.
Causes for Ewing sarcoma :
It is not clear what causes Ewing sarcoma.
Ewing sarcoma happens when cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it is called metastatic cancer.
In Ewing sarcoma, the DNA changes most often affect a gene called EWSR1. If your healthcare professional suspects that you or your child has Ewing sarcoma, the cancer cells may be tested to look for changes in this gene.
Risk Factors for Ewing sarcoma:
Risk factors for Ewing sarcoma include:
Young age. Ewing sarcoma can happen at any age. But it is more likely to happen in children and young adults.
European ancestry. Ewing sarcoma is more common in people of European ancestry. It's much less common in people of African and East Asian ancestry.
There's no way to prevent Ewing sarcoma.
Complications for Ewing sarcoma:
Complications of Ewing sarcoma and its treatment include the following.
There are no preventive measures available for Ewing sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Eye floaters
Overview of Eye floaters:
Eye floaters are spots in your vision. They may look to you like black or gray specks, strings, or cobwebs. They may drift about when you move your eyes. Floaters appear to dart away when you try to look at them directly.
Most eye floaters are caused by age-related changes that occur as the jelly-like substance (vitreous) inside your eyes liquifies and contracts. Scattered clumps of collagen fibers form within the vitreous and can cast tiny shadows on your retina. The shadows you see are called floaters.
If you notice a sudden increase in eye floaters, contact an eye specialist immediately — especially if you also see light flashes or lose your vision. These can be symptoms of an emergency that requires prompt attention.
There are no home remedies available for Eye floaters in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Eye floaters :
Symptoms of eye floaters may include:
Small shapes in your vision that appear as dark specks or knobby, transparent strings of floating material
Spots that move when you move your eyes, so when you try to look at them, they move quickly out of your line of vision
Spots that are most noticeable when you look at a plain bright background, such as a blue sky or a white wall
Small shapes or strings that eventually settle down and drift out of the line of vision
Causes for Eye floaters :
Eye floaters may be caused by vitreous changes related to aging or from other diseases or conditions:
Age-related eye changes. The vitreous is a jelly-like substance made primarily of water, collagen (a type of protein) and hyaluronan (a type of carbohydrate). The vitreous fills the space in your eye between the lens and retina and helps the eye maintain its round shape.
As you age, the vitreous changes. Over time, it liquifies and contracts — a process that causes it to pull away from the eyeball's inside surface.
As the vitreous changes, collagen fibers within the vitreous form clumps and strings. These scattered pieces block some of the light passing through the eye. This casts tiny shadows on your retina that are seen as floaters.
Inflammation in the back of the eye. Uveitis is inflammation in the middle layer of tissue in the eye wall (uvea). Posterior uveitis affects the back of the eye, which includes the retina and an eye layer called the choroid. The inflammation causes floaters in the vitreous. Causes of posterior uveitis include infection, autoimmune disorders and inflammatory diseases.
Bleeding in the eye. Bleeding into the vitreous can have many causes, including retinal tears and detachments, diabetes, high blood pressure (hypertension), blocked blood vessels, and injury. Blood cells are seen as floaters.
Torn retina. Retinal tears can happen when a contracting vitreous tugs on the retina with enough force to tear it. Without treatment, a retinal tear may lead to retinal detachment. If fluid leaks behind the tear, it can cause the retina to separate from the back of your eye. Untreated retinal detachment can cause permanent vision loss.
Eye surgeries and eye medications. Certain medications that are injected into the vitreous can cause air bubbles to form. These bubbles are seen as shadows until your eye absorbs them. Silicone oil bubbles added during certain surgeries on the vitreous and retina also can be seen as floaters.
Risk Factors for Eye floaters:
Factors that can increase your risk of eye floaters include:
Age over 50 years
Nearsightedness
Eye injury
Complications from cataract surgery
Diabetes complication that causes damage to the blood vessels of the retina (diabetic retinopathy)
Eye inflammation
There are no Complications available for Eye floaters in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Eye floaters in the knowledge baseCondition name:Eye melanoma
Overview of Eye melanoma:
Melanoma is a type of cancer that develops in the cells that produce melanin — the pigment that gives your skin its color. Your eyes also have melanin-producing cells and can develop melanoma. Eye melanoma is also called ocular melanoma.
Most eye melanomas form in the part of the eye you can't see when looking in a mirror. This makes eye melanoma difficult to detect. In addition, eye melanoma typically doesn't cause early signs or symptoms.
Treatment is available for eye melanomas. Treatment for some small eye melanomas may not interfere with your vision. However, treatment for large eye melanomas typically causes some vision loss.
There are no home remedies available for Eye melanoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Eye melanoma :
Eye melanoma may not cause signs and symptoms. When they do occur, signs and symptoms of eye melanoma can include:
A sensation of flashes or specks of dust in your vision (floaters)
A growing dark spot on the iris
A change in the shape of the dark circle (pupil) at the center of your eye
Poor or blurry vision in one eye
Loss of peripheral vision
Causes for Eye melanoma :
It's not clear what causes eye melanoma.
Doctors know that eye melanoma occurs when errors develop in the DNA of healthy eye cells. The DNA errors tell the cells to grow and multiply out of control, so the mutated cells go on living when they would normally die. The mutated cells accumulate in the eye and form an eye melanoma.
Risk Factors for Eye melanoma:
Risk factors for primary melanoma of the eye include:
Light eye color. People with blue eyes or green eyes have a greater risk of melanoma of the eye.
Being white. White people have a greater risk of eye melanoma than do people of other races.
Age. The risk of eye melanoma increases with age.
Certain inherited skin disorders. A condition called dysplastic nevus syndrome, which causes abnormal moles, may increase your risk of developing melanoma on your skin and in your eye.
In addition, people with abnormal skin pigmentation involving the eyelids and adjacent tissues and increased pigmentation on their uvea — known as ocular melanocytosis — also have an increased risk of developing eye melanoma.
Exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light. The role of ultraviolet exposure in eye melanoma is unclear. There's some evidence that exposure to UV light, such as light from the sun or from tanning beds, may increase the risk of eye melanoma.
Certain genetic mutations. Certain genes passed from parents to children may increase the risk of eye melanoma.
Complications for Eye melanoma:
Complications of eye melanoma may include:
Increasing pressure within the eye (glaucoma). A growing eye melanoma may cause glaucoma. Signs and symptoms of glaucoma may include eye pain and redness, as well as blurry vision.
Vision loss. Large eye melanomas often cause vision loss in the affected eye and can cause complications, such as retinal detachment, that also cause vision loss.
Small eye melanomas can cause some vision loss if they occur in critical parts of the eye. You may have difficulty seeing in the center of your vision or on the side. Very advanced eye melanomas can cause complete vision loss.
Eye melanoma that spreads beyond the eye. Eye melanoma can spread outside of the eye and to distant areas of the body, including the liver, lungs and bones.
There are no preventive measures available for Eye melanoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Eyestrain
Overview of Eyestrain:
Eyestrain is a common condition that occurs when your eyes get tired from intense use, such as while driving long distances or staring at computer screens and other digital devices.
Eyestrain can be annoying. But it usually isn't serious, and it goes away once you rest your eyes or take other steps to reduce your eye discomfort. In some cases, symptoms of eyestrain can indicate an underlying eye condition that needs treatment.
Home Remedies for Eyestrain:
Consider these tips to reduce or prevent eyestrain.
Adjust the lighting. When watching television, it may be easier on your eyes if you keep the room softly lit.
When reading printed materials or doing close work, try to position the light source behind you and direct the light onto your page or task. If you're reading at a desk, use a shaded light positioned in front of you. The shade will keep light from shining directly into your eyes.
Take breaks. When reading or doing close work, take occasional breaks and rest your eyes by looking away from the page, digital screen or task.
Limit screen time. This is especially important for children, who may not make the connection between extended viewing, eyestrain and the need to rest their eyes regularly.
Use artificial tears. Nonprescription artificial tears can help prevent and relieve dry eyes. Use them even when your eyes feel fine to keep them well lubricated and prevent a recurrence of symptoms.
Your eye specialist can suggest which eye drops might be best for you. Avoid eye drops with a redness remover, as these may worsen dry eye symptoms.
Eye drops that don't contain preservatives can be used as often as you need. If you use eye drops containing preservatives, you may develop a sensitivity to the preservative if you use the drops more than four times a day. If this occurs, switching to preservative-free eye drops can be helpful. However, don't use them more than four times a day.
Improve the air quality of your space. Some changes that may help prevent dry eyes include using a humidifier, adjusting the thermostat to reduce blowing air and avoiding smoke. If you smoke, consider quitting. Moving your chair to a different area may help reduce the amount of dry moving air on your eyes and face.
Choose the right eyewear for you. If you need glasses or contacts and work at a computer, consider investing in glasses or contact lenses designed specifically for computer work. Ask your optometrist about lens coatings and tints that might help too.
Tips for computer work
Computer use is a common cause of eyestrain. If you work at a desk and use a computer, these self-care steps can help take some of the strain off your eyes.
Blink often to refresh your eyes. Many people blink less than usual when working at a computer, which can contribute to dry eyes. Blinking produces tears that moisten and refresh your eyes. Try to make it a habit to blink more often when looking at a monitor.
Take eye breaks. Throughout the day, give your eyes a break by looking away from your monitor. Try the 20-20-20 rule: Every 20 minutes, look at something 20 feet away for at least 20 seconds.
Check the lighting and reduce glare. Bright lighting and too much glare can strain your eyes and make it difficult to see objects on your monitor. The worst problems are generally from sources above or behind you, including fluorescent lighting and sunlight. Consider turning off some or all of the overhead lights.
If you need light for writing or reading, use an adjustable desk lamp. Close blinds or shades, and avoid placing your monitor directly in front of a window or white wall. Place an anti-glare cover over the screen.
Adjust your monitor. Position your monitor directly in front of you about an arm's length away so that the top of the screen is at or just below eye level. It also helps to have a chair you can adjust.
Use a document holder. If you need to refer to print material while you work on your computer, place it on a document holder. Some holders are designed to be placed between the keyboard and the monitor; others are placed to the side. Find one that works for you. The goal is to reduce how much your eyes need to readjust and how often you turn your neck and head.
Adjust your screen settings. Enlarge the type for easier reading. And adjust the contrast and brightness to a level that's comfortable for you.
Symptoms for Eyestrain :
Eyestrain symptoms include:
Sore, tired, burning or itching eyes
Watery or dry eyes
Blurred or double vision
Headache
Sore neck, shoulders or back
Increased sensitivity to light, called photophobia
Difficulty concentrating
Feeling that you cannot keep your eyes open
Causes for Eyestrain :
Common causes of eyestrain include:
Looking at digital device screens
Reading without pausing to rest your eyes
Driving long distances and doing other activities involving focusing for a long time
Being exposed to bright light or glare
Straining to see in very dim light
Having an underlying eye problem, such as dry eyes or uncorrected vision, called refractive error
Being stressed or fatigued
Being exposed to dry moving air from a fan, a heating system or an air-conditioning system
There are no Risk Factors available for Eyestrain in the knowledge baseComplications for Eyestrain:
Eyestrain doesn't have serious or long-term consequences, but it can be aggravating and unpleasant. It can make you tired and reduce your ability to concentrate.
There are no preventive measures available for Eyestrain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Factitious disorder
Overview of Factitious disorder:
Factitious disorder is a serious mental disorder in which someone deceives others by appearing sick, by purposely getting sick or by self-injury. Factitious disorder also can happen when family members or caregivers falsely present others, such as children, as being ill, injured or impaired.
Factitious disorder symptoms can range from mild (slight exaggeration of symptoms) to severe (previously called Munchausen syndrome). The person may make up symptoms or even tamper with medical tests to convince others that treatment, such as high-risk surgery, is needed.
Factitious disorder is not the same as inventing medical problems for practical benefit, such as getting out of work or winning a lawsuit. Although people with factitious disorder know they are causing their symptoms or illnesses, they may not understand the reasons for their behaviors or recognize themselves as having a problem.
Factitious disorder is challenging to identify and hard to treat. However, medical and psychiatric help are critical for preventing serious injury and even death caused by the self-harm typical of this disorder.
Home Remedies for Factitious disorder:
Along with professional treatment, these tips may help people who have factitious disorder:
Stick to your treatment plan. Attend therapy appointments and take any medications as directed. If you feel an urge to harm yourself or cause yourself to become ill, talk honestly to your therapist or primary care doctor for better ways to cope with emotions.
Have a medical gatekeeper. Have one trusted primary provider to manage your medical care, rather than visiting numerous doctors, specialists and surgeons.
Remember the risks. Remind yourself that you could face permanent injury or even death each time you hurt yourself or have a risky test or surgery needlessly.
Don't run. Resist urges to find a new doctor or to flee to a new town where medical professionals aren't aware of your background. Your therapist can help you overcome these powerful urges.
Connect with someone. Many people with factitious disorder lack friendships and other relationships. Try to find someone you're able to confide in, share enjoyable times with and offer your own support to.
Symptoms for Factitious disorder :
Factitious disorder symptoms involve mimicking or producing illness or injury or exaggerating symptoms or impairment to deceive others. People with the disorder go to great lengths to hide their deception, so it may be difficult to realize that their symptoms are actually part of a serious mental health disorder. They continue with the deception, even without receiving any visible benefit or reward or when faced with objective evidence that doesn't support their claims.
Factitious disorder signs and symptoms may include:
Clever and convincing medical or psychological problems
Extensive knowledge of medical terms and diseases
Vague or inconsistent symptoms
Conditions that get worse for no apparent reason
Conditions that don't respond as expected to standard therapies
Seeking treatment from many different doctors or hospitals, which may include using a fake name
Reluctance to allow doctors to talk to family or friends or to other health care professionals
Frequent stays in the hospital
Eagerness to have frequent testing or risky operations
Many surgical scars or evidence of numerous procedures
Having few visitors when hospitalized
Arguing with doctors and staff
Causes for Factitious disorder :
The cause of factitious disorder is unknown. However, the disorder may be caused by a combination of psychological factors and stressful life experiences.
Risk Factors for Factitious disorder:
Several factors may increase the risk of developing factitious disorder, including:
Childhood trauma, such as emotional, physical or sexual abuse
A serious illness during childhood
Loss of a loved one through death, illness or abandonment
Past experiences during a time of sickness and the attention it brought
A poor sense of identity or self-esteem
Personality disorders
Depression
Desire to be associated with doctors or medical centers
Work in the health care field
Factitious disorder is considered rare, but it's not known how many people have the disorder. Some people use fake names to avoid detection, some visit many different hospitals and doctors, and some are never identified — all of which make it difficult to get a reliable estimate.
Complications for Factitious disorder:
People with factitious disorder are willing to risk their lives to be seen as sick. They frequently have other mental health disorders as well. As a result, they face many possible complications, including:
Injury or death from self-inflicted medical conditions
Severe health problems from infections or unnecessary surgery or other procedures
Loss of organs or limbs from unnecessary surgery
Alcohol or other substance abuse
Significant problems in daily life, relationships and work
Abuse when the behavior is inflicted on another
Preventions for Factitious disorder
Because the cause of factitious disorder is unknown, there's currently no known way to prevent it. Early recognition and treatment of factitious disorder may help avoid unnecessary and potentially dangerous tests and treatment.
Condition name:Factor V Leiden
Overview of Factor V Leiden:
Factor V Leiden (FAK-tur five LIDE-n) is a mutation of one of the clotting factors in the blood. This mutation can increase your chance of developing abnormal blood clots, most commonly in your legs or lungs.
Most people with factor V Leiden never develop abnormal clots. But in people who do, these abnormal clots can lead to long-term health problems or become life-threatening.
Both men and women can have factor V Leiden. Women who carry the factor V Leiden mutation may have an increased tendency to develop blood clots during pregnancy or when taking the hormone estrogen.
If you have factor V Leiden and have developed blood clots, anticoagulant medications can lessen your risk of developing additional blood clots and help you avoid potentially serious complications.
Home Remedies for Factor V Leiden:
Some precautions to help reduce your risk of blood clots include:
Keep your legs moving. When your legs remain still for hours, your calf muscles don't contract, which normally helps blood circulate. If you're on a long plane trip, raise your toes up and down and rotate your ankles every hour or so. Drink extra water to prevent dehydration, and avoid alcohol. On a car trip, take periodic breaks and walk around.
Consider compression stockings. These types of socks, which usually come up to the knees, help improve blood circulation in your legs. Ask your doctor if they might be a good option for your situation.
Be cautious with estrogen. Oral contraceptives or estrogen replacement therapy can increase the risk of blood clots on their own, so be sure to discuss the risks and the benefits of estrogen-containing medications with your doctor if you have factor V Leiden.
Prevent excessive bleeding
If your factor V Leiden requires you to take anticoagulant medication, here are some steps that might help you prevent injury and avoid excessive bleeding:
Avoid playing contact sports or engaging in other activities that could result in physical injury. Regular noncontact exercise, such as walking or swimming, is still recommended for good health.
Use a soft toothbrush and waxed floss.
Avoid shaving cuts by using an electric razor.
Be cautious with household tasks involving knives, scissors and other sharp tools.
Symptoms for Factor V Leiden :
The factor V Leiden mutation does not itself cause any symptoms. Since factor V Leiden is a risk for developing blood clots in the leg or lungs, the first indication that you have the disorder may be the development of an abnormal blood clot.
Some clots do no damage and disappear on their own. Others can be life-threatening. Symptoms of a blood clot depend on what part of your body is affected.
Causes for Factor V Leiden :
If you have factor V Leiden, you inherited either one copy or, rarely, two copies of the defective gene. Inheriting one copy slightly increases your risk of developing blood clots. Inheriting two copies — one from each parent — significantly increases your risk of developing blood clots.
Risk Factors for Factor V Leiden:
A family history of factor V Leiden increases your risk of inheriting the disorder. The disorder is most common in people who are white and of European descent.
People who have inherited factor V Leiden from only one parent have a 5 percent chance of developing an abnormal blood clot by age 65. Factors that increase this risk include:
Two faulty genes. Inheriting the genetic mutation from both parents instead of just one can significantly increase your risk of abnormal blood clots.
Immobility. Extended periods of immobility, such as sitting during a long airplane flight, can increase the risk of leg clots.
Estrogens. Oral contraceptives, hormone replacement therapy and pregnancy can make you more likely to develop blood clots.
Surgeries or injuries. Surgeries or injuries such as broken bones can increase your risk of abnormal blood clots.
Non-O blood type. Abnormal blood clots are more common in people who have blood types of A, B or AB compared with those with blood type O.
Complications for Factor V Leiden:
Factor V Leiden can cause blood clots in the legs (deep vein thrombosis) and lungs (pulmonary embolism). These blood clots can be life-threatening.
There are no preventive measures available for Factor V Leiden in the knowledge baseCondition name:Familial adenomatous polyposis
Overview of Familial adenomatous polyposis:
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a rare, inherited condition caused by a defect in the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene. Most people inherit the gene from a parent. But for 25 to 30 percent of people, the genetic mutation occurs spontaneously.
FAP causes extra tissue (polyps) to form in your large intestine (colon) and rectum. Polyps can also occur in the upper gastrointestinal tract, especially the upper part of your small intestine (duodenum). If untreated, the polyps in the colon and rectum are likely to become cancerous when you are in your 40s.
Most people with familial adenomatous polyposis eventually need surgery to remove the large intestine to prevent cancer. The polyps in the duodenum also can develop cancer, but they can usually be managed by careful monitoring and by removing polyps regularly.
Some people have a milder form of the condition, called attenuated familial adenomatous polyposis (AFAP). People with AFAP usually have fewer colon polyps (an average of 30) and develop cancer later in life.
There are no home remedies available for Familial adenomatous polyposis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Familial adenomatous polyposis :
The main sign of FAP is hundreds or even thousands of polyps growing in your colon and rectum, usually starting by your mid-teens. The polyps are nearly 100 percent certain to develop into colon cancer or rectal cancer by the time you're in your 40s.
Causes for Familial adenomatous polyposis :
Familial adenomatous polyposis is caused by a defect in a gene that's usually inherited from a parent. But some people develop the abnormal gene that causes the condition.
Risk Factors for Familial adenomatous polyposis:
Your risk of familial adenomatous polyposis is higher if you have a parent, child, brother, or sister with the condition.
Complications for Familial adenomatous polyposis:
In addition to colon cancer, familial adenomatous polyposis can cause other complications:
Duodenal polyps. These polyps grow in the upper part of your small intestine and may become cancerous. But with careful monitoring, duodenal polyps can often be detected and removed before cancer develops.
Periampullary polyps. These polyps occur where the bile and pancreas ducts enter the duodenum (ampulla). Periampullary polyps might become cancerous but can often be detected and removed before cancer develops.
Gastric fundic polyps. These polyps grow in the lining of your stomach.
Desmoids. These noncancerous masses can arise anywhere in the body but often develop in the stomach area (abdomen). Desmoids can cause serious problems if they grow into nerves or blood vessels or exert pressure on other organs in your body.
Other cancers. Rarely, FAP can cause cancer to develop in your thyroid gland, central nervous system, adrenal glands, liver or other organs.
Noncancerous (benign) skin tumors.
Benign bone growths (osteomas).
Congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium (CHRPE). These are benign pigment changes in the retina of your eye.
Dental abnormalities. These include extra teeth or teeth that don't come in.
Low numbers of red blood cells (anemia).
There are no preventive measures available for Familial adenomatous polyposis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Farsightedness
Overview of Farsightedness:
Farsightedness (hyperopia) is a common vision condition in which you can see distant objects clearly, but objects nearby may be blurry.
The degree of your farsightedness influences your focusing ability. People with severe farsightedness may be able to clearly see only objects a great distance away, while those with mild farsightedness may be able to clearly see objects that are closer.
Farsightedness usually is present at birth and tends to run in families. You can easily correct this condition with eyeglasses or contact lenses. Another treatment option is surgery.
Home Remedies for Farsightedness:
You can't prevent farsightedness, but you can help protect your eyes and your vision by following these tips:
Have your eyes checked. Do this regularly even if you see well.
Control chronic health conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes and high blood pressure, can affect your vision if not treated.
Protect your eyes from the sun. Wear sunglasses that block ultraviolet (UV) radiation.
Prevent eye injuries. Wear protective eyewear when doing certain things, such as playing sports, mowing the lawn, painting or using other products with toxic fumes.
Eat healthy foods. Try to eat plenty of leafy greens, other vegetables and fruits. And studies show that your eyes benefit if you also include in your diet fish high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as tuna and salmon.
Don't smoke. Just as smoking isn't good for the rest of your body, smoking can adversely affect your eye health as well.
Use the right corrective lenses. The right lenses optimize your vision. Having regular exams will ensure that your prescription is correct.
Use good lighting. Turn up or add light to see better.
Reduce eyestrain. Look away from your computer or near-task work, including reading, every 20 minutes â€” for 20 seconds â€” at something 20 feet away.
See your doctor immediately if you have any of these symptoms: Sudden loss of vision in one eye with or without pain; sudden hazy or blurred vision; double vision; or visual flashes of light, black spots or halos around lights. This may represent a serious medical or eye condition.
Symptoms for Farsightedness :
Farsightedness may mean:
Nearby objects may appear blurry
You need to squint to see clearly
You have eyestrain, including burning eyes, and aching in or around the eyes
You have general eye discomfort or a headache after doing close tasks, such as reading, writing, computer work or drawing, for a time
Causes for Farsightedness :
Your eye has two parts that focus images:
The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped front surface of your eye.
The lens is a clear structure about the size and shape of an M&M's candy.
In a normally shaped eye, each of these focusing elements has a perfectly smooth curvature, like the surface of a marble. A cornea and lens with such curvature bend (refract) all incoming light to make a sharply focused image directly on the retina, at the back of your eye.
There are no Risk Factors available for Farsightedness in the knowledge baseComplications for Farsightedness:
Farsightedness can be associated with several problems, such as:
Crossed eyes. Some children with farsightedness may develop crossed eyes. Specially designed eyeglasses that correct for part or all of the farsightedness may treat this problem.
Reduced quality of life. With uncorrected farsightedness, you might not be able to perform a task as well as you wish. And your limited vision may detract from your enjoyment of day-to-day activities.
Eyestrain. Uncorrected farsightedness may cause you to squint or strain your eyes to maintain focus. This can lead to eyestrain and headaches.
Impaired safety. Your own safety and that of others may be jeopardized if you have an uncorrected vision problem. This could be especially serious if you are driving a car or operating heavy equipment.
Financial burden. The cost of corrective lenses, eye exams and medical treatments can add up, especially with a chronic condition such as farsightedness.
There are no preventive measures available for Farsightedness in the knowledge baseCondition name:Fecal incontinence
Overview of Fecal incontinence:
Fecal incontinence is not being able to control bowel movements. Stool leaks from the rectum without warning. Fecal incontinence ranges from an occasional leakage of stool while passing gas to a complete loss of bowel control. Fecal incontinence is sometimes called bowel incontinence.
Common causes of fecal incontinence include diarrhea, constipation, and muscle or nerve damage. The muscle or nerve damage may be associated with aging or with giving birth.
Whatever the cause, fecal incontinence can be difficult to discuss. But don't shy away from talking to your doctor about this common problem. Treatments can improve fecal incontinence and your quality of life.
Home Remedies for Fecal incontinence:
Dietary changes
You may be able to gain better control of your bowel movements by:
Keeping track of what you eat. What you eat and drink affects the consistency of your stools. Make a list of what you eat for a few days. You may discover a connection between certain foods and your bouts of incontinence. Once you've identified problem foods, stop eating them and see if your incontinence improves.
Foods can cause diarrhea or gas and worsen fecal incontinence. Common culprits include spicy foods, fatty and greasy foods, and dairy products. Caffeine-containing beverages and alcohol also can act as laxatives. Other foods that have a laxative effect include sugar-free gum and diet soda, which contain artificial sweeteners.
Getting adequate fiber. If constipation is causing fecal incontinence, your doctor may recommend eating fiber-rich foods. Fiber helps make stool soft and easier to control. If diarrhea is contributing to the problem, high-fiber foods also can add bulk to your stools and make them less watery.
Fiber is predominately present in fruits, vegetables, and whole-grain breads and cereals. Aim for 25 grams (0.9 ounces) of fiber a day or more. But don't add it to your diet all at once. Too much fiber suddenly can cause uncomfortable bloating and gas.
Drink more water. To keep stools soft and formed, drink at least eight glasses of liquid, preferably water, a day.
Skin care
You can help avoid further discomfort from fecal incontinence by keeping the skin around your anus as clean and dry as possible. To relieve anal discomfort and eliminate any possible odor associated with fecal incontinence:
Wash with water. Gently wash the area with water after each bowel movement. Showering or soaking in a bath also may help.
Soap can dry and irritate the skin. So can rubbing with dry toilet paper. Try using premoistened, alcohol-free, perfume-free towelettes or wipes.
Dry thoroughly. Allow the area to air-dry, if possible. If you're short on time, you can gently pat the area dry with toilet paper or a clean washcloth.
Apply a cream or powder. Moisture-barrier creams help keep irritated skin from having direct contact with feces. Be sure the area is clean and dry before you apply any cream. Nonmedicated talcum powder or cornstarch also may help relieve anal discomfort.
Wear cotton underwear and loose clothing. Tight clothing can restrict airflow, making skin problems worse. Change soiled underwear quickly.
When medical treatments can't completely eliminate incontinence, products such as absorbent pads and disposable underwear can help you manage the problem. If you use pads or adult diapers, be sure they have an absorbent wicking layer on top. This helps keep moisture away from your skin.
Symptoms for Fecal incontinence :
Fecal incontinence may occur during an occasional bout of diarrhea. But for some people, fecal incontinence happens a lot. People with this condition may not be able to stop the urge to defecate. It may come on so suddenly that you can't make it to the toilet in time. This is called urge incontinence.
Another type of fecal incontinence occurs in people who are not aware of the need to pass stool. This is called passive incontinence.
Fecal incontinence may happen with other bowel problems, such as:
Diarrhea.
Constipation.
Gas and bloating.
Causes for Fecal incontinence :
For many people, there is more than one cause of fecal incontinence.
Causes can include:
Muscle damage. Injury to the rings of muscle at the end of the rectum may make it difficult to hold in stool. These rings are known as the anal sphincter. This kind of damage can occur during childbirth. This is most commonly due to having an episiotomy or using forceps during delivery.
Nerve damage. Injury to the nerves that sense stool in the rectum or those that control the anal sphincter can lead to fecal incontinence. Many things can damage these nerves, including:
Childbirth.
Repeated straining during bowel movements.
Long-lasting constipation.
Spinal cord injury.
Stroke.
Diabetes.
Multiple sclerosis.
Constipation. Chronic constipation may cause a dry, hard mass of stool to form in the rectum and become too large to pass. This is known as stool impaction. The muscles of the rectum and intestines stretch and eventually weaken. This allows watery stool from farther up the digestive tract to move around the impacted stool and leak out. Long-lasting constipation also may cause nerve damage that leads to fecal incontinence.
Diarrhea. Solid stool is easier to hold in the rectum than is loose stool, so the loose stools of diarrhea can cause or worsen fecal incontinence.
Hemorrhoids. Hemorrhoids are swollen veins in the rectum. These swollen veins can keep the anus from closing completely, letting stool leak out.
Loss of storage capacity in the rectum. Usually, the rectum stretches to accommodate stool. If the rectum is scarred or stiff it can't stretch as much as it needs to, and excess stool can leak out. Things such as surgery, radiation treatment or inflammatory bowel disease can stiffen and scar the rectum.
Surgery. Surgery involving the rectum and anus, such as hemorrhoid removal, can cause muscle and nerve damage that leads to fecal incontinence.
Rectal prolapse. Fecal incontinence can be a result of this condition, in which the rectum drops down into the anus. The stretching of the rectal sphincter by prolapse damages the nerves that control the rectal sphincter. The longer this lasts, the less likely the nerves and muscles will recover.
Rectocele. In women, fecal incontinence can occur if the rectum protrudes through the vagina. This condition is known as rectocele.
Risk Factors for Fecal incontinence:
A number of factors may increase your risk of developing fecal incontinence, including:
Age. Although fecal incontinence can occur at any age, it's more common in adults over 65.
Being female. Fecal incontinence can be a complication of childbirth. Recent research also has found that women who take menopausal hormone replacement therapy have a modest increased risk of fecal incontinence.
Nerve damage. People who have long-standing diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or back trauma from injury or surgery may be at risk of fecal incontinence. These conditions can damage nerves that help control defecation.
Dementia. Fecal incontinence is often present in late-stage Alzheimer's disease and dementia.
Physical disability. Being physically disabled may make it difficult to reach a toilet in time. An injury that caused a physical disability also may cause rectal nerve damage, leading to fecal incontinence.
Complications for Fecal incontinence:
Complications of fecal incontinence may include:
Emotional distress. Losing control over bodily functions can lead to feeling uneasy about being out in public. It's common for people with fecal incontinence to try to hide the problem or to avoid social engagements.
Skin irritation. The skin around the anus is delicate and sensitive. Repeated contact with stool can lead to pain and itching. It also may lead to sores, also called ulcers. Ulcers often require medical treatment.
Preventions for Fecal incontinence
Depending on the cause, it may be possible to improve or prevent fecal incontinence. These actions may help:
Reduce constipation. Increase your exercise, eat more high-fiber foods and drink plenty of fluids.
Control diarrhea. Treating or eliminating the cause of the diarrhea, such as an intestinal infection, may help you avoid fecal incontinence.
Do not strain. Straining during bowel movements can eventually weaken anal sphincter muscles or damage nerves.
Condition name:Female sexual dysfunction
Overview of Female sexual dysfunction:
Female sexual dysfunction is a medical term for ongoing sexual problems that upset you or your partner. Problems may involve sexual response, desire, orgasm or pain during sex.
Many people have sexual problems at some point. Some have them throughout their lives. Female sexual dysfunction can happen at any stage of life. It can happen only sometimes or all the time during sex.
Sexual response is complex. It involves how your body works, your feelings, things that happen in your life, your beliefs, your lifestyle and how you relate to your partner. A problem in any one of these areas can affect sexual desire, arousal or satisfaction. Treatment often involves more than one approach.
Home Remedies for Female sexual dysfunction:
To boost your sexual health, find ways to be comfortable with your sexuality, improve your self-esteem and accept your body. Try practicing these healthy lifestyle habits:
Avoid excessive alcohol. Drinking too much blunts sexual responsiveness.
Don't smoke. Cigarette smoking restricts blood flow throughout your body. Less blood reaches your sexual organs, which means you could experience decreased sexual arousal and orgasmic response.
Be physically active. Regular aerobic exercise increases your stamina, improves your body image and elevates your mood. This can help you feel more romantic, more often.
Make time for leisure and relaxation. Learn ways to decrease stress, and allow yourself to relax amid the stresses of your daily life. Being relaxed can enhance your ability to focus on your sexual experiences and may help you attain more satisfying arousal and orgasm.
Symptoms for Female sexual dysfunction :
Symptoms vary depending on the type of sexual dysfunction. Symptoms may include:
Low sexual desire. This most common of female sexual dysfunctions involves a lack of interest in sex and not wanting to have sex.
Sexual arousal disorder. Even if you want sex, sometimes it may be hard to get or stay aroused during sex.
Orgasmic disorder. You have ongoing trouble having an orgasm even with enough sexual arousal.
Sexual pain disorder. You have pain when having sex.
Causes for Female sexual dysfunction :
Sexual dysfunction problems often start when hormones change. This might be after having a baby or during menopause. Major illness, such as cancer, diabetes or heart disease, also can add to sexual dysfunction.
Factors that add to sex problems include the following:
Physical. Medical conditions can lead to sexual dysfunction. These may include cancer, diabetes, kidney failure, multiple sclerosis, heart disease and bladder problems. Certain medicines can decrease your sexual desire and make it harder for you to have an orgasm. These include some medicines to treat depression, high blood pressure, allergies and cancers.
Hormonal. Lower estrogen levels after menopause may lead to changes in your genital tissues and how you respond to sex. Lower estrogen leads to less blood flow to the pelvis. This can cause you to have less feeling in your genitals and to need more time to become aroused and reach orgasm.
The vaginal lining also becomes thinner and less stretchy. Not being sexually active can make this worse. These factors can lead to painful intercourse, called dyspareunia. Sexual desire also lessens when hormone levels drop.
Your body's hormone levels shift after giving birth and during breastfeeding. This can lead to vaginal dryness and affect your desire for sex.
Psychological and social. Anxiety or depression that isn't treated can cause sexual dysfunction or add to it. So can long-term stress, a history of sexual abuse, worries of pregnancy and the demands of having an infant.
Problems with your partner can affect your sex life. So can cultural and religious issues and problems with body image.
Risk Factors for Female sexual dysfunction:
Factors that may increase your risk of sexual dysfunction:
Depression, anxiety and other mental health conditions.
Heart disease, diabetes, cancer.
Conditions of the spine and brain, called neurological. Examples are spinal cord injury or multiple sclerosis.
Gynecological conditions, including infections.
Certain medicines, such as those taken for depression or high blood pressure.
Emotional or psychological stress, especially stress in your relationship with your partner.
A history of sexual abuse.
Lack of privacy.
There are no Complications available for Female sexual dysfunction in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Female sexual dysfunction in the knowledge baseCondition name:Fetal alcohol syndrome
Overview of Fetal alcohol syndrome:
Fetal alcohol syndrome is a condition in a child that results from alcohol exposure during the mother's pregnancy. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause the child to have disabilities related to behavior, learning and thinking, and physical development. The symptoms of fetal alcohol syndrome vary from child to child but are lifelong.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is on the severe end of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). FASD is a range of conditions in the child caused by the mother drinking alcohol during pregnancy.
There is no amount of alcohol that's known to be safe to drink during pregnancy. If you drink during pregnancy, you place your baby at risk of fetal alcohol syndrome.
If you suspect your child has fetal alcohol syndrome, talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional as soon as possible. Early diagnosis and treatment may help lessen some issues.
There are no home remedies available for Fetal alcohol syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Fetal alcohol syndrome :
The severity of fetal alcohol syndrome symptoms varies. Some children have far greater problems than others do. Symptoms of fetal alcohol syndrome may include any mix of issues with how the body develops; thinking, learning and behavior; and functioning and coping in daily life.
Causes for Fetal alcohol syndrome :
When you're pregnant and you drink alcohol:
Alcohol goes into your bloodstream. Inside the womb, the placenta provides oxygen and nutrients to a developing baby. The alcohol reaches your baby by passing through the placenta.
Alcohol causes a higher blood alcohol level in your developing baby than in your body. That's because a baby breaks down and gets rid of alcohol slower than an adult does.
Alcohol is toxic to the baby's cells. Exposure to alcohol before birth can harm how the body develops and cause permanent brain damage in the developing baby.
The more you drink while pregnant, the greater the risk to your unborn baby. But any amount of alcohol puts your baby at risk. Your baby's brain, heart and blood vessels begin to develop in the early weeks of pregnancy, before you may know you're pregnant.
During the first three months of pregnancy, important stages of development happen with the face and organs such as the heart, bones, brain and nerves. Drinking alcohol during this time can cause damage to how body parts develop. And as the baby continues to develop in the womb, it's damaging to drink at any time during pregnancy.
Risk Factors for Fetal alcohol syndrome:
The more alcohol you drink during pregnancy, the greater the chance of problems in your baby. There's no known safe amount of alcohol to drink during pregnancy, and there's no type of alcohol that is safe.
You could put your baby at risk even before you realize you're pregnant. Don't drink alcohol if:
You're pregnant.
You think you might be pregnant.
You're trying to become pregnant.
Complications for Fetal alcohol syndrome:
Behavior issues after your child is born can result from having fetal alcohol syndrome. These are called secondary disabilities and may include:
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Aggression, improper social behavior, and breaking rules and laws.
Alcohol or recreational drug misuse.
Mental health conditions, such as depression, anxiety or eating disorders.
Challenges staying in or completing school.
Not being able to get along with others.
Challenges with independent living and getting and keeping jobs.
Sexual behaviors that are not proper.
Early death by accident, homicide or suicide.
Preventions for Fetal alcohol syndrome
To prevent fetal alcohol syndrome, don't drink alcohol during pregnancy.
Here are some steps to help:
Don't drink alcohol if you're trying to get pregnant. If you haven't already stopped drinking, stop as soon as you know you're pregnant or if you even think you might be pregnant. It's never too late to stop drinking during your pregnancy. The sooner you stop, the better it is for your baby.
Don't drink alcohol at any time during your pregnancy. Fetal alcohol syndrome is completely preventable in children whose mothers don't drink at all during pregnancy.
Consider giving up alcohol during your childbearing years if you're sexually active and you're having unprotected sex. Many pregnancies are unplanned, and damage from alcohol can happen in the earliest weeks of pregnancy.
If you have an alcohol problem, get help before you get pregnant. Talk to your healthcare professional or a mental health professional about your drinking. Review how much and how often you drink alcohol so that together you can create a treatment plan to help you quit.
Condition name:Fibroadenoma
Overview of Fibroadenoma:
A fibroadenoma (fy-broe-ad-uh-NO-muh) is a solid breast lump. This breast lump is not cancer. A fibroadenoma happens most often between ages 15 and 35. But it can be found at any age in anyone who has periods.
A fibroadenoma often causes no pain. It can feel firm, smooth and rubbery. It has a round shape. It might feel like a pea in the breast. Or it may feel flat like a coin. When touched, it moves easily within the breast tissue.
Fibroadenomas are common breast lumps. If you have a fibroadenoma, your health care provider may tell you to watch for changes in its size or feel. You may need a biopsy to check the lump or surgery to remove it. Many fibroadenomas need no further treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Fibroadenoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Fibroadenoma :
A fibroadenoma is a solid breast lump that often causes no pain. It is:
Round with distinct, smooth borders
Easily moved
Firm or rubbery
A fibroadenoma often grows slowly. The average size is about 1 inch (2.5 centimeters). A fibroadenoma can get bigger over time. It may be tender or cause soreness a few days before your period. A large fibroadenoma may hurt when you touch it. But most often, this type of breast lump causes no pain.
You can have a single fibroadenoma or more than one fibroadenoma. They can occur in one or both breasts.
Some fibroadenomas shrink over time. Most fibroadenomas in adolescents shrink over many months to a few years. They then disappear. Fibroadenomas may also change shape over time.
Fibroadenomas may get bigger during pregnancy. They might shrink after menopause.
Causes for Fibroadenoma :
The cause of fibroadenomas is not known. They might be related to hormones that control your periods.
Less common types of fibroadenomas and related breast lumps may not act the same as typical fibroadenomas. These types of breast lumps include:
Complex fibroadenomas. These are fibroadenomas that can get bigger over time. They can press on or displace nearby breast tissue.
Giant fibroadenomas. Giant fibroadenomas grow quickly to larger than 2 inches (5 centimeters). They also can press on nearby breast tissue or push it out of place.
Phyllodes tumors. Phyllodes tumors and fibroadenomas are made of similar tissues. But under a microscope, phyllodes tumors look different from fibroadenomas. Phyllodes tumors typically have features associated with growing faster. Most phyllodes tumors are benign. This means they are not cancer. But some phyllodes tumors may be cancer. Or they could become cancer. Phyllodes tumors often cause no pain.
There are no Risk Factors available for Fibroadenoma in the knowledge baseComplications for Fibroadenoma:
Common fibroadenomas do not affect your risk of breast cancer. But your risk might go up a bit if you have a complex fibroadenoma or a phyllodes tumor.
There are no preventive measures available for Fibroadenoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Fibrocystic breasts
Overview of Fibrocystic breasts:
Fibrocystic breasts are composed of tissue that feels lumpy or ropelike in texture. Doctors call this nodular or glandular breast tissue.
It's not at all uncommon to have fibrocystic breasts or experience fibrocystic breast changes. In fact, medical professionals have stopped using the term "fibrocystic breast disease" and now simply refer to "fibrocystic breasts" or "fibrocystic breast changes" because having fibrocystic breasts isn't a disease. Breast changes that fluctuate with the menstrual cycle and have a ropelike texture are considered normal.
Fibrocystic breast changes don't always cause symptoms. Some people experience breast pain, tenderness and lumpiness — especially in the upper, outer area of the breasts. Breast symptoms tend to be most bothersome just before menstruation and get better afterward. Simple self-care measures can usually relieve discomfort associated with fibrocystic breasts.
Home Remedies for Fibrocystic breasts:
You might find relief from symptoms of fibrocystic breasts through one of these home remedies:
Wear a firm support bra, fitted by a professional, if possible.
Wear a sports bra during exercise and while sleeping, especially when your breasts are extra sensitive.
Limit or avoid caffeine, a dietary change many people report as helpful, although medical studies of caffeine's effect on breast pain and other premenstrual symptoms have been inconclusive.
Eat less fat, which may decrease breast pain or discomfort associated with fibrocystic breasts.
Reduce or stop taking hormone therapy if you're postmenopausal â€” but be sure to talk to your doctor before making any change in your prescription medications.
Use a heating pad or warm water bottle to relieve your discomfort.
Symptoms for Fibrocystic breasts :
Signs and symptoms of fibrocystic breasts may include:
Breast lumps or areas of thickening that tend to blend into the surrounding breast tissue
Generalized breast pain or tenderness or discomfort that involves the upper outer part of the breast
Breast nodules or lumpy tissue change in size with the menstrual cycle
Green or dark brown nonbloody nipple discharge that tends to leak without pressure or squeezing
Breast changes that are similar in both breasts
Monthly increase in breast pain or lumpiness from midcycle (ovulation) to just before your period and then gets better once your period starts
Fibrocystic breast changes occur most often between 30 and 50 years of age. These changes happen rarely after menopause unless you're taking hormone replacement medicine such as estrogen or progesterone.
Causes for Fibrocystic breasts :
The exact cause of fibrocystic breast changes isn't known, but experts suspect that reproductive hormones — especially estrogen — play a role.
Fluctuating hormone levels during the menstrual cycle can cause breast discomfort and areas of lumpy breast tissue that feel tender, sore and swollen. Fibrocystic breast changes tend to be more bothersome before your menstrual period and ease up after your period begins.
When examined under a microscope, fibrocystic breast tissue includes distinct components such as:
Fluid-filled round or oval sacs (cysts)
A prominence of scar-like fibrous tissue (fibrosis)
Overgrowth of cells (hyperplasia) lining the milk ducts or milk-producing tissues (lobules) of the breast
Enlarged breast lobules (adenosis)
There are no Risk Factors available for Fibrocystic breasts in the knowledge baseComplications for Fibrocystic breasts:
Having fibrocystic breasts doesn't increase your risk of breast cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Fibrocystic breasts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Fibromuscular dysplasia
Overview of Fibromuscular dysplasia:
Fibromuscular dysplasia is a condition that causes the medium-sized arteries in the body to narrow and grow larger. Narrowed arteries can reduce blood flow and affect how body organs work.
Fibromuscular dysplasia is most often seen in the arteries leading to the kidneys and brain. But it also can affect arteries in the legs, heart, belly area and, rarely, the arms. More than one artery can be involved.
Treatments are available to control symptoms and help prevent complications, such as stroke. But there is no cure for fibromuscular dysplasia.
There are no home remedies available for Fibromuscular dysplasia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Fibromuscular dysplasia :
Symptoms of fibromuscular dysplasia depend on which artery or arteries are affected. Some people don't have any symptoms.
If the arteries to the kidneys are affected, common symptoms include:
High blood pressure.
Problems with how the kidneys work.
If the arteries affected supply blood to the brain, symptoms might include:
Headache.
A pulsing feeling or ringing sound in your ears, called tinnitus.
Dizziness.
Sudden neck pain.
Stroke or transient ischemic attack.
Causes for Fibromuscular dysplasia :
The cause of fibromuscular dysplasia is not known. Changes in genes might cause the condition.
Because the condition is more common in women than men, researchers think female hormones also may play a role. But exactly how is unclear. Fibromuscular dysplasia is not linked to women's use of birth control pills.
Risk Factors for Fibromuscular dysplasia:
Things that increase the risk of fibromuscular dysplasia include:
Sex. The condition is more common in women than it is in men.
Age. Fibromuscular dysplasia tends to be diagnosed in people in their 50s. But it can affect anyone of any age.
Smoking. People who smoke seem to have an increased risk of developing fibromuscular dysplasia. Smoking also can make the disease worse.
Complications for Fibromuscular dysplasia:
Possible complications of fibromuscular dysplasia include:
High blood pressure. The narrowing of the arteries of the kidneys causes higher pressure on the artery walls. Damage to the arteries may lead to heart disease or heart failure.
Tears in the artery walls. Fibromuscular dysplasia and tears in the walls of the arteries often occur together. An artery tear is called a dissection. When a tear forms in one of the blood vessels in the heart, it's called a spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD). A dissection can slow or block blood flow. Emergency medical treatment is needed.
Bulge or ballooning of an artery. Also called an aneurysm, this complication can occur if the artery wall is weak or damaged. Fibromuscular dysplasia can weaken the walls of the affected arteries. An aneurysm that breaks open, called a rupture, can be life-threatening. Emergency medical treatment is needed for a ruptured aneurysm.
Stroke. An artery tear or aneurysm rupture in the brain can lead to stroke. High blood pressure also can increase the risk of a stroke.
There are no preventive measures available for Fibromuscular dysplasia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Flatfeet
Overview of Flatfeet:
Flatfeet is a common condition, also known as flatfoot, in which the arches on the inside of the feet flatten when pressure is put on them. When people with flatfeet stand up, the feet point outward, and the entire soles of the feet fall and touch the floor.
Flatfeet can occur when the arches don't develop during childhood. It can also develop later in life after an injury or from the simple wear-and-tear stresses of age.
Flatfeet is usually painless. If you aren't having pain, no treatment is necessary. However, if flatfeet is causing you pain and limiting what you want to do, then an evaluation from a specialist may be warranted.
Home Remedies for Flatfeet:
If flatfeet causes you minor pain, you might want to try:
Rest. Avoid activities that aggravate the condition. Participate in low-impact activities â€” such as walking, biking or swimming â€” rather than jumping and running activities.
Arch supports. Arch supports that are available without a prescription might increase your comfort.
Medications. Pain relievers that are available without a prescription, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) might help.
Weight loss. Losing weight can reduce stress on the feet.
Symptoms for Flatfeet :
Most people have no symptoms associated with flatfeet. But some people with flatfeet experience foot pain, particularly in the heel or arch area. Pain may worsen with activity. Swelling may occur along the inside of the ankle.
Causes for Flatfeet :
Flatfeet is not unusual in infants and toddlers, because the foot's arch hasn't yet developed. Most people's arches develop throughout childhood, but some people never develop arches. People without arches may or may not have problems.
Some children have flexible flatfeet, often called flexible flatfoot, in which the arch is visible when the child is sitting or standing on tiptoes but disappears when the child stands. Most children outgrow flexible flatfeet without problems.
People without flatfeet can also develop the condition. Arches can collapse abruptly after an injury. Or the collapse can happen over years of wear and tear. Over time, the tendon that runs along the inside of the ankle and helps support the arch can get weakened or tear. As the severity increases, arthritis may develop in the foot.
Risk Factors for Flatfeet:
Factors that can increase the risk of flatfeet include:
Obesity
Injury to the foot or ankle
Rheumatoid arthritis
Aging
Diabetes
There are no Complications available for Flatfeet in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Flatfeet in the knowledge baseCondition name:Floor of the mouth cancer
Overview of Floor of the mouth cancer:
Floor of the mouth cancer is cancer that starts as a growth of cells under the tongue.
Floor of the mouth cancer most often begins in the thin, flat cells that line the inside of the mouth, called squamous cells. When cancer starts in these cells it's called squamous cell carcinoma.
Floor of the mouth cancer causes changes in the look and feel of the tissue under the tongue. These changes may include a lump or a sore that doesn't heal.
Floor of the mouth cancer treatments include surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Floor of the mouth cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Floor of the mouth cancer :
Symptoms of floor of the mouth cancer can include:
Mouth pain.
Sores in the mouth that won't heal.
Trouble moving the tongue.
Loose teeth.
Pain with swallowing.
Weight loss.
Ear pain.
Swelling in the neck that may hurt.
White patches in the mouth that won't go away.
Causes for Floor of the mouth cancer :
Floor of the mouth cancer happens when cells under the tongue develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions also tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Floor of the mouth cancer:
The most common factors that can increase the risk of floor of the mouth cancer include:
Using tobacco. All forms of tobacco increase the risk of floor of the mouth cancer. This includes cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff.
Drinking alcohol. Frequent and heavy drinking increases the risk of floor of the mouth cancer. Using alcohol and tobacco together increases the risk even more.
Being exposed to human papillomavirus. Human papillomavirus, also called HPV, is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, it causes no problems and goes away on its own. For others, it causes changes in cells that can lead to many types of cancer.
Having a weak immune system. If the body's germ-fighting immune system is weakened by medicines or illness, there might be a higher risk of floor of the mouth cancer. People with a weakened immune system include those taking medicines to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. Certain medical conditions, such as infection with HIV, also can weaken the immune system.
There are no Complications available for Floor of the mouth cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Floor of the mouth cancer
To lower the risk of floor of the mouth cancer:
Don't use tobacco. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. If you currently use tobacco of any kind, talk with a health care professional about strategies to help you quit.
Limit alcohol intake. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Ask about the HPV vaccine. Receiving a vaccination to prevent HPV infection may reduce your risk of HPV-related cancers. Ask your doctor or other health care professional whether an HPV vaccine is right for you.
Have regular health and dental exams. During your appointments, your dentist, doctor or other health care professional can check your mouth for signs of cancer and precancerous changes.
Condition name:Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS)
Overview of Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS):
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is a disease in which scar tissue develops on the glomeruli, the small parts of the kidneys that filter waste from the blood. FSGS can be caused by a variety of conditions.
FSGS is a serious condition that can lead to kidney failure, which can only be treated with dialysis or kidney transplant. Treatment options for FSGS depend on the type you have.
Types of FSGS include:
Primary FSGS. Many people diagnosed with FSGS have no known cause for their condition. This is called primary (idiopathic) FSGS.
Secondary FSGS. Several factors, such as infection, drug toxicity, diseases including diabetes or sickle cell disease, obesity, and even other kidney diseases can cause secondary FSGS. Controlling or treating the underlying cause often slows ongoing kidney damage and might lead to improved kidney function over time.
Genetic FSGS. This is a rare form of FSGS caused by genetic changes. It also is called familial FSGS. It's suspected when several members of a family show signs of FSGS. Familial FSGS can also occur when neither parent has the disease but each one carries a copy of an altered gene that can be passed on to the next generation.
Unknown FSGS. In some cases, the underlying cause of FSGS cannot be determined despite the evaluation of clinical symptoms and extensive testing.
Home Remedies for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS):
The following lifestyle changes can help keep the kidneys healthier:
Don't use medicines that can damage your kidneys. These include some pain relievers such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDS you can get without a prescription include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Eat a healthy diet. To protect your kidneys and lower your blood pressure, limit salt and protein.
Don't smoke. If you need help quitting, talk with a member of your healthcare team.
Stay at a healthy weight. Lose weight if you're overweight.
Be active on most days. Being active is good for your health. Ask your healthcare team what types of exercise and how much exercise you can do.
Symptoms for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) :
Symptoms of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) might include:
Swelling, called edema, in the legs and ankles, around the eyes and in other body parts.
Weight gain from fluid buildup.
Foamy urine from protein buildup, called proteinuria.
Causes for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) :
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) can be caused by a variety of conditions, such as diabetes, sickle cell disease, other kidney diseases and obesity. Infections and damage from illicit drugs, medicines or toxins also can cause it. Gene changes passed through families, called inherited gene changes, can cause a rare form of FSGS. Sometimes there's no known cause.
Risk Factors for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS):
Factors that can raise the risk of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) include:
Medical conditions that can damage the kidneys. Certain diseases and conditions increase the risk of getting FSGS. These include diabetes, lupus, obesity and other kidney diseases.
Certain infections. Infections that increase the risk of FSGS include HIV and hepatitis C.
Gene changes. Certain genes passed through families can raise the risk of FSGS.
Complications for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS):
Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) may lead to other health concerns, also called complications, including:
Nephrotic syndrome. This kidney condition causes the body to pass too much protein in the urine. Nephrotic syndrome raises the risk of other health conditions, such as blood clots and high blood pressure.
Kidney failure. Damage to the kidneys that can't be fixed causes the kidneys to stop working. The only treatments for kidney failure are dialysis or kidney transplant.
There are no preventive measures available for Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Food allergy
Overview of Food allergy:
Food allergy is an immune system reaction that happens soon after eating a certain food. Even a tiny amount of the allergy-causing food can trigger symptoms such as hives, swollen airways and digestive problems. In some people, a food allergy can cause severe symptoms or even a life-threatening reaction known as anaphylaxis.
Food allergy affects an estimated 8% of children under age 5 and up to 4% of adults. While there's no cure, some children outgrow their food allergies as they get older.
It's easy to confuse a food allergy with a much more common reaction known as food intolerance. While bothersome, food intolerance is a less serious condition that does not involve the immune system.
Home Remedies for Food allergy:
One of the keys to preventing an allergic reaction is to completely avoid the food that causes your symptoms.
Don't assume. Always read food labels to make sure they don't contain an ingredient you're allergic to. Even if you think you know what's in a food, check the label. Ingredients sometimes change.
Food labels are required to clearly list whether the food products contain any common food allergens. Read food labels carefully to avoid the most common sources of food allergens: milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy and wheat.
When in doubt, say no thanks. At restaurants and social gatherings, you're always taking a risk that you might eat a food you're allergic to. Many people don't understand the seriousness of an allergic food reaction and may not realize that a tiny amount of a food can cause a severe reaction in some people.
If you have any suspicion at all that a food may contain something you're allergic to, don't eat it.
Involve caregivers. If your child has a food allergy, enlist the help of relatives, babysitters, teachers and other caregivers. Make sure that they understand how important it is for your child to avoid the allergy-causing food and that they know what to do in an emergency.
It's also important to let caregivers know what steps they can take to prevent a reaction in the first place, such as careful hand-washing and cleaning any surfaces that might have come in contact with the allergy-causing food.
Symptoms for Food allergy :
For some people, an allergic reaction to a particular food may be uncomfortable but not severe. For other people, a food allergy reaction can be frightening and even life-threatening. Food allergy symptoms usually develop within a few minutes to two hours after eating the offending food. Rarely, symptoms may be delayed for several hours.
The most common food allergy symptoms include:
Tingling or itching in the mouth.
Hives, itching or eczema.
Swelling of the lips, face, tongue, and throat or other parts of the body.
Belly pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting.
Wheezing, nasal congestion or trouble breathing.
Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting.
Causes for Food allergy :
When you have a food allergy, your immune system mistakenly identifies a specific food or a substance in food as something harmful. In response, your immune system triggers cells to make an antibody known as immunoglobulin E (IgE) to recognize the allergy-causing food or food substance, called an allergen.
The next time you eat even the smallest amount of that food, IgE antibodies sense it. They then signal your immune system to release a chemical called histamine, as well as other chemicals, into your bloodstream. These chemicals cause allergy symptoms.
Most food allergies are triggered by certain proteins in:
Crustacean shellfish, such as shrimp, lobster and crab.
Peanuts.
Tree nuts, such as walnuts and pecans.
Fish.
Chicken eggs.
Cow's milk.
Wheat.
Soy.
Risk Factors for Food allergy:
Food allergy risk factors include:
Family history. You're at increased risk of food allergies if asthma, eczema, hives or allergies such as hay fever are common in your family.
Other allergies. If you're already allergic to one food, you may be at increased risk of becoming allergic to another. Similarly, if you have other types of allergic reactions, such as hay fever or eczema, your risk of having a food allergy is greater.
Age. Food allergies are more common in children, especially toddlers and infants. As children grow older, their digestive systems mature and their bodies are less likely to react to food components that trigger allergies.
Fortunately, children typically outgrow allergies to milk, soy, wheat and eggs. Severe allergies and allergies to nuts and shellfish are more likely to be lifelong.
Asthma. Asthma and food allergy commonly occur together. When they do, both food allergy and asthma symptoms are more likely to be severe.
Factors that may increase your risk of developing an anaphylactic reaction include:
Having a history of asthma.
Being a teenager or younger.
Delaying use of epinephrine to treat your food allergy symptoms.
Not having hives or other skin symptoms.
Complications for Food allergy:
Complications of food allergy can include:
Anaphylaxis. This is a life-threatening allergic reaction.
Atopic dermatitis, known as eczema. Food allergy may cause a skin reaction, such as eczema.
There are no preventive measures available for Food allergy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Food poisoning
Overview of Food poisoning:
Food poisoning, a type of foodborne illness, is a sickness people get from something they ate or drank. The causes are germs or other harmful things in the food or beverage.
Symptoms of food poisoning often include upset stomach, diarrhea and vomiting. Symptoms usually start within hours or several days of eating the food. Most people have mild illness and get better without treatment.
Sometimes food poisoning causes severe illness or complications.
Home Remedies for Food poisoning:
For most people, symptoms improve without treatment within 48 hours. To help keep yourself more comfortable and prevent dehydration while you recover, try the following:
Let your stomach settle. Eat after your stomach is settled and you are hungry again.
Replace fluids. Replace fluids with water, sports drinks, juice with added water or broths. Children or people at risk for serious illness should drink rehydration fluids (Pedialyte, Enfalyte, others). Talk to your doctor before giving rehydration fluids to infants.
Ease back into eating. Gradually begin to eat bland, low-fat, easy-to-digest foods, such as soda crackers, toast, gelatin, bananas and rice. Stop eating if you feel sick to your stomach again.
Avoid certain foods and substances until you're feeling better. These include dairy products, caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, and fatty or highly seasoned foods.
Rest. Rest to recover from illness and dehydration.
Symptoms for Food poisoning :
Symptoms vary depending on what is causing the illness. They may begin within a few hours or a few weeks depending on the cause.
Common symptoms are:
Upset stomach.
Vomiting.
Diarrhea.
Diarrhea with bloody stools.
Stomach pain and cramps.
Fever.
Headache.
Less often food poisoning affects the nervous system and can cause severe disease. Symptoms may include:
Blurred or double vision.
Headache.
Loss of movement in limbs.
Problems with swallowing.
Tingling or numbness of skin.
Weakness.
Changes in sound of the voice.
Causes for Food poisoning :
Many germs or harmful things, called contaminants, can cause foodborne illnesses. Food or drink that carries a contaminant is called "contaminated." Food can be contaminated with any of the following:
Bacteria.
Viruses.
Parasites that can live in the intestines.
Poisons, also called toxins.
Bacteria that carry or make toxins.
Molds that make toxins.
Risk Factors for Food poisoning:
Anyone can get food poisoning. Some people are more likely to get sick or have more-serious disease or complications. These people include:
Infants and children.
Pregnant people.
Older adults.
People with weakened immune systems due to another disease or treatments.
Complications for Food poisoning:
In most healthy adults, complications are uncommon. They can include the following.
Preventions for Food poisoning
To prevent food poisoning at home:
Handwashing. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. Do this after using the toilet, before eating, and before and after handling food.
Wash fruits and vegetables. Rinse fruits and vegetables under running water before eating, peeling or preparing.
Wash kitchen utensils thoroughly. Wash cutting boards, knives and other utensils with soapy water after contact with raw meats or unwashed fruits and vegetables.
Don't eat raw or undercooked meat or fish. Use a meat thermometer to make sure meat is cooked enough. Cook whole meats and fish to at least 145 F (63 C) and let rest for at least three minutes. Cook ground meat to at least 160 F (71 C). Cook whole and ground poultry to at least 165 F (74 C).
Refrigerate or freeze leftovers. Put leftovers in covered containers in the refrigerator right after your meal. Leftovers can be kept for 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator. If you don't think you'll eat them within four days, freeze them right away.
Cook leftovers safely. You can safely thaw frozen food three ways. You can microwave it. You can move it to the refrigerator to thaw overnight. Or you can put the frozen food in a leakproof container and put it in cold water on the counter. Reheat leftovers until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius).
Throw it out when in doubt. If you aren't sure if a food has been prepared, served or stored safely, discard it. Even if it looks and smells fine, it may not be safe to eat.
Throw out moldy food. Throw out any baked foods with mold. Throw out moldy soft fruits and vegetables, such as tomatoes, berries or peaches. And throw away any nuts or nut products with mold. You can trim away mold from firm foods with low moisture, such as carrots, bell peppers and hard cheeses. Cut away at least 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) around the moldy part of the food.
Clean your refrigerator. Clean the inside of the refrigerator every few months. Make a cleaning solution of 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of baking soda and 1 quart (0.9 liters) of water. Clean visible mold in the refrigerator or on the door seals. Use a solution of 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of bleach in 1 quart (0.9 liters) of water.
Condition name:Foot drop
Overview of Foot drop:
Foot drop, sometimes called drop foot, is a general term for difficulty lifting the front part of the foot. If you have foot drop, the front of your foot might drag on the ground when you walk.
Foot drop isn't a disease. Rather, it is a sign of an underlying neurological, muscular or anatomical problem.
Sometimes foot drop is temporary, but it can be permanent. If you have foot drop, you might need to wear a brace on your ankle and foot to support the foot and hold it in position.
Home Remedies for Foot drop:
Because foot drop can increase your risk of tripping and falling, consider taking these precautions around your house:
Keep all floors clear of clutter.
Avoid the use of throw rugs.
Move electrical cords away from walkways.
Make sure rooms and stairways are well-lit.
Place fluorescent tape on the top and bottom steps of stairways.
Symptoms for Foot drop :
Foot drop makes it difficult to lift the front part of the foot, so it might drag on the floor when you walk. To help the foot clear the floor, a person with foot drop may raise the thigh more than usual when walking, as though climbing stairs. This unusual kind of walking, called steppage gait, might cause the foot to slap down onto the floor with each step. In some cases, the skin on the top of the foot and toes feels numb.
Depending on the cause, foot drop can affect one or both feet.
Causes for Foot drop :
Foot drop is caused by weakness or paralysis of the muscles involved in lifting the front part of the foot. Causes of foot drop might include:
Nerve injury. The most common cause of foot drop is compression of a nerve in the leg that controls the muscles involved in lifting the foot. This nerve is called the peroneal nerve. A serious knee injury can lead to the nerve being compressed. It can also be injured during hip or knee replacement surgery, which may cause foot drop.
A nerve root injury — "pinched nerve" — in the spine also can cause foot drop. People who have diabetes are more susceptible to nerve disorders, which are associated with foot drop.
Muscle or nerve disorders. Various forms of muscular dystrophy, an inherited disease that causes progressive muscle weakness, can contribute to foot drop. So can other neurologic disorders, such as polio or Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease.
Brain and spinal cord disorders. Disorders that affect the spinal cord or brain — such as stroke, multiple sclerosis or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) — may cause foot drop.
Risk Factors for Foot drop:
The peroneal nerve controls the muscles that lift the foot. This nerve runs near the surface of the skin on the side of the knee closest to the hand. Activities that compress this nerve can increase the risk of foot drop. Examples include:
Leg crossing. People who habitually cross their legs can compress the peroneal nerve on their uppermost leg.
Prolonged kneeling. Occupations that involve prolonged squatting or kneeling — such as picking strawberries or laying floor tile — can result in foot drop.
Wearing a leg cast. Plaster casts that enclose the ankle and end just below the knee can exert pressure on the peroneal nerve.
There are no Complications available for Foot drop in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Foot drop in the knowledge baseCondition name:Frontal lobe seizures
Overview of Frontal lobe seizures:
Frontal lobe seizures are a common form of epilepsy. Epilepsy is a brain disorder in which clusters of brain cells send a burst of electrical signals. This causes movements that can't be controlled, known as seizures. Frontal lobe seizures begin in the front of the brain, the area known as the frontal lobe.
The frontal lobe is large and has important functions. For this reason, frontal lobe seizures can produce symptoms that are unusual and may appear to be related to a mental illness. The seizures also can be mistaken for a sleep disorder because they often occur during sleep. Frontal lobe seizures also are known as frontal lobe epilepsy.
Changes in brain tissue, infection, injury, stroke, tumors or other conditions can cause frontal lobe seizures.
Medicines can help control the seizures. Surgery or electrical stimulation might be options if medicines don't reduce or stop the seizures.
Home Remedies for Frontal lobe seizures:
You may find that some things trigger seizures. Seizures can be triggered by alcohol intake, smoking and, especially, lack of sleep. There also is evidence that severe stress can provoke seizures, and that seizures themselves can cause stress. Avoiding these triggers where possible might help improve seizure control.
Symptoms for Frontal lobe seizures :
Frontal lobe seizures often last less than 30 seconds. Sometimes recovery is immediate.
Symptoms of frontal lobe seizures might include:
Head and eye movement to one side.
Not responding to others or having trouble speaking.
Explosive screams, including profanities or laughter.
Body posturing. A common posture is extending one arm while the other flexes, as if the person is posing like a fencer.
Repetitive movements. These may include rocking, bicycle pedaling or pelvic thrusting.
Causes for Frontal lobe seizures :
Frontal lobe seizures can be caused by tumors, stroke, infection or traumatic injuries in the brain's frontal lobes.
Frontal lobe seizures also are associated with a rare inherited disorder called autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy. This form of epilepsy causes brief seizures during sleep. If one of your parents has this form of epilepsy, you have a 50% chance of inheriting the disorder.
For about half of people who have frontal lobe epilepsy, the cause is not known.
Risk Factors for Frontal lobe seizures:
Risk factors of frontal lobe seizures include:
Family history of seizures or brain disorders.
Head trauma.
Brain infection.
Brain tumors.
Blood vessels or brain tissues that form in an irregular way.
Stroke.
There are no Complications available for Frontal lobe seizures in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Frontal lobe seizures in the knowledge baseCondition name:Frontotemporal dementia
Overview of Frontotemporal dementia:
Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is an umbrella term for a group of brain diseases that mainly affect the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain. These areas of the brain are associated with personality, behavior and language.
In frontotemporal dementia, parts of these lobes shrink, known as atrophy. Symptoms depend on which part of the brain is affected. Some people with frontotemporal dementia have changes in their personalities. They become socially inappropriate and may be impulsive or emotionally indifferent. Others lose the ability to properly use language.
Frontotemporal dementia can be misdiagnosed as a mental health condition or as Alzheimer's disease. But FTD tends to occur at a younger age than does Alzheimer's disease. It often begins between the ages of 40 and 65, although it can occur later in life as well. FTD is the cause of dementia about 10% to 20% of the time.
Home Remedies for Frontotemporal dementia:
As frontotemporal dementia symptoms get worse, you'll need the help of caregivers. Caregivers can help you with daily activities, help maintain your safety, provide transportation and help with finances. Your healthcare professional can tell you when you may need to stop driving or let someone you trust take over your finances.
It's also important to get regular cardiovascular exercise. It may help improve your mood and thinking skills.
At home, it may be helpful to make adjustments so that daily living tasks are easier and you reduce the chance of injuries. For example, remove rugs to reduce falls. Or raise toilets to make it easier to use the bathroom.
Caregivers may be able to address behavioral symptoms by changing the way they interact with people with dementia. Ask your loved one's healthcare professional about resources that provide training in caring for someone with dementia.
Keeping a log of behavioral symptoms may help you pinpoint things in the environment that trigger symptoms. Taking these steps also may help:
Skip events or activities that trigger behavior that's not desired.
Remove negative environmental cues, such as car keys.
Maintain a calm environment.
Provide structured routines.
Simplify daily tasks.
Distract and redirect attention from harmful or inappropriate behaviors.
Symptoms for Frontotemporal dementia :
Symptoms of frontotemporal dementia differ from one person to the next. Symptoms get worse over time, usually over years.
People with frontotemporal dementia tend to have clusters of symptom types that occur together. They also may have more than one cluster of symptom types.
Causes for Frontotemporal dementia :
In frontotemporal dementia, the frontal and temporal lobes of the brain shrink and certain substances build up in the brain. What causes these changes is usually not known.
Some genetic changes have been linked to frontotemporal dementia. But more than half of the people with FTD have no family history of dementia.
Researchers have confirmed that some frontotemporal dementia gene changes also are seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). More research is being done to understand the connection between the conditions.
Risk Factors for Frontotemporal dementia:
Your risk of getting frontotemporal dementia is higher if you have a family history of dementia. There are no other known risk factors.
There are no Complications available for Frontotemporal dementia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Frontotemporal dementia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Frostbite
Overview of Frostbite:
Frostbite is an injury caused by freezing of the skin and underlying tissues. The early stage of frostbite is called frostnip. It causes a cold feeling followed by numbness. As frostbite gets worse, the affected skin may change color and become hard or waxy-looking.
Exposed skin is at risk of frostbite in conditions that are freezing cold and windy or wet. Frostbite also can occur on skin covered by gloves or other clothing.
Mild frostbite gets better with rewarming. Seek medical attention for anything more serious than mild frostbite because the condition can cause permanent damage to skin, muscle, bone and other tissue.
Home Remedies for Frostbite:
After rewarming, your skin may stop tingling and return to its usual color within a few hours. Deep tissue injury may heal slowly and be very sensitive to the touch for weeks. Take all medicines as prescribed by your healthcare team. For mild frostbite, a nonprescription pain reliever can help ease symptoms.
Symptoms for Frostbite :
Symptoms of frostbite include:
Numbness.
Tingling.
Patches of skin in shades of red, white, blue, gray, purple or brown. The color of affected skin depends on how serious the frostbite is and the usual skin color.
Cold, hard, waxy-looking skin.
Clumsiness due to joint stiffness.
Pain.
Blistering after rewarming.
Frostbite is most common on the fingers, toes, ears, cheeks, penis, chin and tip of the nose. Because of numbness, you may not notice you have frostbite until someone points it out. Changes in the color of the affected area might be difficult to see on brown and Black skin.
Frostbite occurs in several stages:
Frostnip. Frostnip is the early stage of frostbite. Symptoms are pain, tingling and numbness. Frostnip doesn't cause permanent damage to the skin.
Mild to moderate frostbite. Frostbite causes slight changes in skin color. The skin may begin to feel warm. This is a sign of serious skin involvement. If you treat frostbite with rewarming at this stage, the surface of the skin may look patchy. The affected area may sting, burn and swell. A fluid-filled blister may form 12 to 36 hours after rewarming. This stage also is called superficial frostbite.
Deep frostbite. As frostbite progresses, it affects all layers of the skin and the tissues below. The affected skin turns white or blue-gray. Large blood blisters may appear 24 to 48 hours after rewarming. Weeks after the injury, tissue may turn black and hard as it dies.
Causes for Frostbite :
The most common cause of frostbite is exposure to freezing cold. The risk rises if the weather also is wet and windy. Frostbite also can be caused by direct contact with ice, freezing metals or very cold liquids.
Risk Factors for Frostbite:
Risk factors for frostbite include:
Being in freezing conditions without protective clothing.
Having certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, exhaustion, poor blood flow or congestive heart failure.
Regularly smoking tobacco.
Having impaired judgment while in very cold conditions.
Having had frostbite or another cold injury in the past.
Being an infant or older adult in cold conditions. People in these age groups have a harder time producing and retaining body heat.
Being in cold conditions at high altitude.
Complications for Frostbite:
Complications of frostbite include:
Hypothermia.
Increased sensitivity to cold and a higher risk of frostbite in the future.
Long-term numbness in the affected area.
Excessive sweating, also called hyperhidrosis.
Changes in or loss of nails.
Growth problems in children if frostbite damages a bone's growth plate.
Infection.
Tetanus.
Gangrene, which can result in having the affected area removed. This procedure is called amputation.
Preventions for Frostbite
Frostbite can be prevented. Here are tips to help you stay safe and warm.
Limit time outdoors when it's freezing cold and wet or windy. Pay attention to weather forecasts and wind chill readings. The risk of frostbite increases the longer you're in freezing conditions. And frostbite can happen in an instant if bare skin touches something cold, such as freezing metal.
Dress in loose layers. Air trapped between the layers helps insulate you from the cold. Choose undergarments that wick moisture away from the skin. Next put on something made of fleece or wool. For the outer layer, wear something windproof and waterproof. Change out of wet gloves, hats and socks as soon as possible.
Wear a hat or headband made for cold weather. Make sure it covers your ears.
Wear mittens. Mittens provide better protection than do gloves. Under a pair of heavy mittens, also wear glove liners, which wick moisture away from the skin.
Wear socks and sock liners. Make sure they fit well, wick moisture and provide insulation.
Watch for symptoms of frostbite. Early signs of frostbite are slight changes in skin color, prickling and numbness. Seek warm shelter if you notice symptoms of frostbite.
Plan to protect yourself. When traveling in cold weather, carry emergency supplies and warm clothing in case you become stranded. If you'll be in remote territory, tell others your route and expected return date.
Don't drink alcohol if you plan to be outdoors in cold weather. Alcoholic beverages cause the body to lose heat faster and can impair judgment.
Eat well-balanced meals and stay hydrated. Doing this even before you go out in the cold helps you stay warm.
Keep moving. Exercise can get your blood flowing and help you stay warm, but don't do it to the point of exhaustion.
Condition name:Frozen shoulder
Overview of Frozen shoulder:
Frozen shoulder, also called adhesive capsulitis, involves stiffness and pain in the shoulder joint. Signs and symptoms typically begin slowly, then get worse. Over time, symptoms get better, usually within 1 to 3 years.
Having to keep a shoulder still for a long period increases the risk of developing frozen shoulder. This might happen after having surgery or breaking an arm.
Treatment for frozen shoulder involves range-of-motion exercises. Sometimes treatment involves corticosteroids and numbing medications injected into the joint. Rarely, arthroscopic surgery is needed to loosen the joint capsule so that it can move more freely.
It's unusual for frozen shoulder to recur in the same shoulder. But some people can develop it in the other shoulder, usually within five years.
Home Remedies for Frozen shoulder:
Continue to use the shoulder and arm as much as possible given your pain and range-of-motion limits. Applying heat or cold to your shoulder can help relieve pain.
Symptoms for Frozen shoulder :
Frozen shoulder typically develops slowly in three stages.
Freezing stage. Any movement of the shoulder causes pain, and the shoulder's ability to move becomes limited. This stage lasts from 2 to 9 months.
Frozen stage. Pain might lessen during this stage. However, the shoulder becomes stiffer. Using it becomes more difficult. This stage lasts from 4 to 12 months.
Thawing stage. The shoulder's ability to move begins to improve. This stage lasts from 5 to 24 months.
For some people, the pain worsens at night, sometimes disrupting sleep.
Causes for Frozen shoulder :
The shoulder joint is enclosed in a capsule of connective tissue. Frozen shoulder occurs when this capsule thickens and tightens around the shoulder joint, restricting its movement.
It's unclear why this happens to some people. But it's more likely to happen after keeping a shoulder still for a long period, such as after surgery or an arm fracture.
Risk Factors for Frozen shoulder:
Certain factors may increase the risk of developing frozen shoulder.
There are no Complications available for Frozen shoulder in the knowledge basePreventions for Frozen shoulder
One of the most common causes of frozen shoulder is not moving a shoulder while recovering from a shoulder injury, broken arm or stroke. If you've had an injury that makes it difficult to move your shoulder, talk to your health care provider about exercises that can help you maintain your ability to move your shoulder joint.
Condition name:Fuchs dystrophy
Overview of Fuchs dystrophy:
Fuchs dystrophy is a condition in which fluid builds up in the clear tissue at the front of the eye, called the cornea. This causes your cornea to swell and thicken, leading to glare, blurred or cloudy vision, and eye discomfort.
Fuchs (fewks) dystrophy usually affects both eyes. It may cause your vision to get worse over time. The disease often starts in the 30s and 40s, but many people with Fuchs dystrophy don't develop symptoms until they reach their 50s or 60s.
Some medicines and self-care steps may help relieve symptoms of Fuchs dystrophy. When advanced disease causes more-serious vision problems, cornea transplant surgery is the best way to restore vision.
Home Remedies for Fuchs dystrophy:
Follow instructions from your eye care team to take care of your eyes. You also can try other things to help reduce glare and soothe your eyes.
Use nonprescription salt solution (5% sodium chloride) eye drops or ointment.
Dry your eyes with a hair dryer. Hold it at arm's length and direct warm â€” not hot â€” air across your face, especially in the morning when swelling is worse. This helps remove extra fluid in the cornea, which reduces swelling.
Symptoms for Fuchs dystrophy :
As Fuchs dystrophy gets worse, symptoms often affect both eyes. Symptoms may include:
Blurred or cloudy vision, sometimes described as a lack of clear vision.
Changes in vision throughout the day. Symptoms are worse in the morning when you wake up and slowly get better during the day. As the disease gets worse, blurred vision may take longer to get better or does not get better at all.
Glare, which can decrease your vision in dim and bright light.
Seeing halos around lights.
Pain or grittiness from tiny blisters on the surface of your cornea.
Causes for Fuchs dystrophy :
The cells lining the inside of the cornea are called endothelial cells. Those cells help maintain a healthy balance of fluid within the cornea and keep the cornea from swelling. In Fuchs dystrophy, the endothelial cells slowly die or do not work well, causing fluid buildup within the cornea. The fluid buildup, called edema, causes thickening of the cornea and blurred vision.
Fuchs dystrophy tends to run in families. The genetic basis of the disease is complex. Family members can be affected to different degrees or not at all.
Risk Factors for Fuchs dystrophy:
Some factors make it more likely that you'll develop Fuchs dystrophy They include:
Sex. Fuchs dystrophy is more common in women than in men.
Genetics. Having a family history of Fuchs dystrophy increases your risk.
Age. There is a rare early-onset type of Fuchs dystrophy that starts in childhood. Most cases start in the 30s and 40s, but many people with Fuchs dystrophy don't develop symptoms until their 50s or 60s.
There are no Complications available for Fuchs dystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Fuchs dystrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Functional dyspepsia
Overview of Functional dyspepsia:
Functional dyspepsia (dis-PEP-see-uh) is a term for recurring symptoms of an upset stomach that have no obvious cause. Functional dyspepsia also is called nonulcer dyspepsia.
Functional dyspepsia is common. It is a constant condition but symptoms don't happen all the time. Symptoms resemble those of an ulcer. They include pain or discomfort in the upper abdomen, bloating, belching and nausea.
Home Remedies for Functional dyspepsia:
Your health care provider may recommend lifestyle changes to help you control your functional dyspepsia.
Make changes to your diet
Changes to what you eat and how you eat might help control your symptoms. Try to:
Eat smaller, more-frequent meals. Having an empty stomach sometimes contributes to functional dyspepsia. Nothing but acid in your stomach may make you feel sick. Try eating a small snack such as a cracker or a piece of fruit.
Try not to skip meals. Avoid large meals and overeating. Eat smaller meals more often.
Stay away from trigger foods. Some foods may trigger functional dyspepsia. These may include fatty and spicy foods, carbonated beverages, caffeine, and alcohol.
Chew your food slowly and completely. Allow time to enjoy your meals.
Reduce stress in your daily life
Stress-reduction techniques or relaxation therapy may help you manage your symptoms. To reduce stress, spend time doing hobbies, sports and other things you enjoy.
Symptoms for Functional dyspepsia :
Symptoms of functional dyspepsia may include:
Pain or burning in the stomach, bloating, excessive belching, or nausea after eating
An early feeling of fullness when eating. The feeling of fullness also is called satiety.
Stomach pain that occurs unrelated to meals or goes away when eating.
Causes for Functional dyspepsia :
No one knows what causes functional dyspepsia. Health care providers consider it a functional disorder. That means it can't be explained by a medical condition, so routine testing may not show any problems or causes. As a result, the diagnosis is based on symptoms.
Risk Factors for Functional dyspepsia:
Some factors can increase the risk of functional dyspepsia. They include:
Being female.
Using certain pain relievers that are available without a prescription. These include aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), which can cause stomach problems.
Smoking.
Anxiety or depression.
History of childhood physical or sexual abuse.
Helicobacter pylori infection.
There are no Complications available for Functional dyspepsia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Functional dyspepsia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Galactorrhea
Overview of Galactorrhea:
Galactorrhea (guh-lack-toe-REE-uh) is a milky nipple discharge unrelated to the usual milk production of breastfeeding. Galactorrhea itself isn't a disease, but it could be a sign of another medical condition. It usually happens in women, even those who have never had children or who have gone through menopause. But galactorrhea can happen in men and babies.
Excessive breast stimulation, medicine side effects or conditions of the pituitary gland all may contribute to galactorrhea. Often, galactorrhea results from increased levels of prolactin, the hormone that stimulates milk production.
Sometimes, the cause of galactorrhea can't be determined. The condition may go away on its own.
Home Remedies for Galactorrhea:
Often, milky discharge associated with idiopathic galactorrhea goes away on its own, particularly if you can avoid breast stimulation or medicines that are known to cause nipple discharge.
To lessen breast stimulation:
Try not to overdo it when touching your nipples during sexual activity.
Avoid squeezing, pinching or otherwise manipulating your nipples.
Wear clothing that minimizes friction between the fabric and your nipples.
Symptoms for Galactorrhea :
Symptoms linked to galactorrhea include:
Milky nipple discharge that may be constant, or it may come and go.
Nipple discharge involving multiple milk ducts.
Spontaneously leaked or manually expressed nipple discharge.
Nipple discharge from one or both breasts.
Absent or irregular menstrual periods.
Headaches or vision problems.
Causes for Galactorrhea :
Galactorrhea often results from having too much prolactin in the body. Prolactin is the hormone responsible for milk production after a baby is born. Prolactin is made by the pituitary gland, a small bean-shaped gland at the base of the brain that secretes and regulates several hormones.
Possible causes of galactorrhea include:
Medicines, such as certain sedatives, antidepressants, antipsychotics and high blood pressure drugs.
Opioid use.
Herbal supplements, such as fennel, anise or fenugreek seed.
Birth control pills.
A noncancerous pituitary tumor, called prolactinoma, or other conditions of the pituitary gland.
Underactive thyroid, called hypothyroidism.
Chronic kidney disease.
Excessive breast stimulation, which may be associated with sexual activity, frequent breast self-exams with nipple manipulation or prolonged clothing friction.
Nerve damage to the chest wall from chest surgery, burns or other chest injuries.
Spinal cord surgery, injury or tumors.
Stress.
Risk Factors for Galactorrhea:
Anything that triggers the release of the hormone prolactin can increase the risk of galactorrhea. Risk factors include:
Certain medicines, illicit drugs and herbal supplements.
Conditions that affect the pituitary gland, such as noncancerous pituitary tumors.
Certain medical conditions, such as chronic kidney disease, spinal cord injury, injuries to the chest wall and underactive thyroid.
A lot of touching and rubbing of the breasts.
Stress.
There are no Complications available for Galactorrhea in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Galactorrhea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gallbladder cancer
Overview of Gallbladder cancer:
Gallbladder cancer is a growth of cells that begins in the gallbladder.
The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ on the right side of the belly, just beneath the liver. The gallbladder stores a fluid called bile that the liver makes to digest food.
Gallbladder cancer is not common. The chance for a cure is good when gallbladder cancer is found when it's small. But most gallbladder cancers are found when they've grown beyond the gallbladder. Then the chance to survive, called prognosis, often is poor.
Gallbladder cancer may not be found until it's advanced because it may cause no symptoms. When they happen, the symptoms may be like those of common conditions. Also, the gallbladder is hidden inside the body. This makes it easier for gallbladder cancer to grow without being found.
There are no home remedies available for Gallbladder cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gallbladder cancer :
Gallbladder cancer may have no symptoms. When there are signs and symptoms, they may include:
Belly pain, mostly in the upper right part of the belly.
Belly bloating.
A mass you can feel through the skin.
Losing weight without trying.
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, called jaundice. Yellowing of the skin might be harder to see on Black or brown skin. Jaundice typically happens when the gallbladder cancer is very advanced.
Causes for Gallbladder cancer :
It's not clear what causes gallbladder cancer.
Healthcare professionals know that gallbladder cancer starts when healthy gallbladder cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Most gallbladder cancer begins in the glandular cells that line the inner surface of the gallbladder. Gallbladder cancer that begins in this type of cell is called adenocarcinoma. This term refers to the way the cancer cells appear when looked at under a microscope.
Risk Factors for Gallbladder cancer:
Factors that can increase the risk of gallbladder cancer include:
Female sex. Gallbladder cancer is much more common in women than in men. Experts think it may be related to the hormone estrogen, which increases the risk of gallstones. People who are assigned female at birth most often have higher levels of estrogen in their bodies than do people assigned male at birth.
Increasing age. Your risk of gallbladder cancer increases as you age. It's more common after age 65. But it can happen in children.
A history of gallstones. Gallbladder cancer is most common in people who have gallstones or have had gallstones in the past. Larger gallstones may carry a larger risk. Gallstones are common. But even in people with gallstones, gallbladder cancer is rare.
Other gallbladder conditions. Other gallbladder conditions that can increase the risk of gallbladder cancer include polyps, infections, and ongoing swelling and irritation, called chronic inflammation.
Inflammation of the bile ducts. Primary sclerosing cholangitis causes inflammation of the ducts that drain bile from the gallbladder and liver. This condition increases the risk of gallbladder cancer.
Healthcare professionals have not found ways to prevent gallbladder cancer.
There are no Complications available for Gallbladder cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Gallbladder cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ganglion cyst
Overview of Ganglion cyst:
Ganglion cysts are lumps that most often appear along the tendons or joints of wrists or hands. They also can occur in ankles and feet. Ganglion cysts are typically round or oval and are filled with a jellylike fluid. They are not cancer.
Small ganglion cysts can be pea-sized. They can change size. Ganglion cysts can be painful if they press on a nearby nerve. Sometimes they affect joint movement.
For a ganglion cyst that causes problems, having a health care provider drain the cyst with a needle might be an option. So might removing the cyst surgically. But if there are no symptoms, no treatment is necessary. Often, the cysts grow and shrink. Some go away on their own.
Home Remedies for Ganglion cyst:
What not to do
An old home fix for a ganglion cyst involves hitting the cyst with a heavy object. This isn't a good thing to do. The force of the blow can damage hands or feet. Also, sticking a needle in the cyst to try to "pop" it can lead to infection.
Symptoms for Ganglion cyst :
These are common features of ganglion cysts:
Location. Ganglion cysts most often develop along the tendons or joints of wrists or hands. The next most common locations are the ankles and feet. These cysts grow near other joints too.
Shape and size. Ganglion cysts are round or oval. Some are too small to feel. The size of a cyst can change, often getting larger over time with joint movement.
Pain. Ganglion cysts usually are painless. But if a cyst presses on a nerve or other structures, it can cause pain, tingling, numbness or muscle weakness.
Causes for Ganglion cyst :
No one knows what causes a ganglion cyst. It grows out of a joint or the lining of a tendon and looks like a tiny water balloon on a stalk. Inside the cyst is a thick fluid like the fluid found in joints or around tendons.
Risk Factors for Ganglion cyst:
Factors that may increase the risk of ganglion cysts include:
Sex and age. Ganglion cysts can develop in anyone, but they most often occur in women between the ages of 20 and 40.
Osteoarthritis. People who have wear-and-tear arthritis in the finger joints closest to the fingernails are at higher risk of developing ganglion cysts near those joints.
Joint or tendon injury. Joints or tendons that have been injured are more likely to develop ganglion cysts.
There are no Complications available for Ganglion cyst in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ganglion cyst in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gastritis
Overview of Gastritis:
Gastritis is a general term for a group of conditions with one thing in common: Inflammation of the lining of the stomach. The inflammation of gastritis is most often the result of infection with the same bacterium that causes most stomach ulcers or the regular use of certain pain relievers. Drinking too much alcohol also can contribute to gastritis.
Gastritis may occur suddenly (acute gastritis) or appear slowly over time (chronic gastritis). In some cases, gastritis can lead to ulcers and an increased risk of stomach cancer. For most people, however, gastritis isn't serious and improves quickly with treatment.
Home Remedies for Gastritis:
You may find some relief from symptoms if you:
Don't drink alcohol. Alcohol can irritate the mucous lining of your stomach.
Consider switching pain relievers. If you use pain relievers that increase your risk of gastritis, ask your healthcare professional whether acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may be an option for you. This medicine is less likely to stir up your stomach problem.
Symptoms for Gastritis :
Gastritis doesn't always cause symptoms. When it does, the symptoms of gastritis may include:
Gnawing or burning ache or pain, called indigestion, in your upper belly. This feeling may become either worse or better after eating.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
A feeling of fullness in your upper abdomen after eating.
Causes for Gastritis :
Gastritis is an inflammation of the stomach lining. The stomach lining is a mucus-lined barrier that protects the stomach wall. Weaknesses or injury to the barrier allows digestive juices to damage and inflame the stomach lining. Several diseases and conditions can increase the risk of gastritis. These include inflammatory conditions, such as Crohn's disease.
Risk Factors for Gastritis:
Factors that increase your risk of gastritis include:
Bacterial infection. A bacterial infection called Helicobacter pylori, also known as H. pylori, is one of the most common worldwide human infections. However, only some people with the infection develop gastritis or other upper gastrointestinal disorders. Healthcare professionals believe sensitivity to the germs could be inherited. Sensitivity also may be caused by lifestyle choices, such as smoking and diet.
Regular use of pain relievers. Pain relievers known as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, also called NSAIDs, can cause both acute gastritis and chronic gastritis. NSAIDs include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve, Anaprox DS). Using these pain relievers regularly or taking too much of these medicines may damage the stomach lining.
Older age. Older adults have an increased risk of gastritis because the stomach lining tends to thin with age. Older adults also have an increased risk because they are more likely to have H. pylori infection or autoimmune disorders than younger people are.
Excessive alcohol use. Alcohol can irritate and break down your stomach lining. This makes your stomach more vulnerable to digestive juices. Excessive alcohol use is more likely to cause acute gastritis.
Stress. Severe stress due to major surgery, injury, burns or severe infections can cause acute gastritis.
Cancer treatment. Chemotherapy medicines or radiation treatment can increase your risk of gastritis.
Your own body attacking cells in your stomach. Called autoimmune gastritis, this type of gastritis occurs when your body attacks the cells that make up your stomach lining. This reaction can wear away at your stomach's protective barrier.
Autoimmune gastritis is more common in people with other autoimmune disorders. These include Hashimoto's disease and type 1 diabetes. Autoimmune gastritis also can be associated with vitamin B-12 deficiency.
Other diseases and conditions. Gastritis may be associated with other medical conditions. These may include HIV/AIDS, Crohn's disease, celiac disease, sarcoidosis and parasitic infections.
Complications for Gastritis:
Left untreated, gastritis may lead to stomach ulcers and stomach bleeding. Rarely, some forms of chronic gastritis may increase your risk of stomach cancer. This risk is increased if you have extensive thinning of the stomach lining and changes in the lining's cells.
Tell your healthcare professional if your symptoms aren't improving despite treatment for gastritis.
There are no preventive measures available for Gastritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Overview of Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD):
Gastroesophageal reflux disease is a condition in which stomach acid repeatedly flows back up into the tube connecting the mouth and stomach, called the esophagus. It's often called GERD for short. This backwash is known as acid reflux, and it can irritate the lining of the esophagus.
Many people experience acid reflux now and then. However, when acid reflux happens repeatedly over time, it can cause GERD.
Most people can manage the discomfort of GERD with lifestyle changes and medicines. And though it's uncommon, some may need surgery to help with symptoms.
Home Remedies for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD):
Lifestyle changes may help reduce the frequency of acid reflux. Try to:
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on the abdomen, pushing up the stomach and causing acid to reflux into the esophagus.
Stop smoking. Smoking decreases the lower esophageal sphincter's ability to function properly.
Elevate the head of your bed. If you regularly experience heartburn while trying to sleep, place wood or cement blocks under the feet at the head end of your bed. Raise the head end by 6 to 9 inches. If you can't elevate your bed, you can insert a wedge between your mattress and box spring to elevate your body from the waist up. Raising your head with additional pillows isn't effective.
Start on your left side. When you go to bed, start by lying on your left side to help make it less likely to have reflux.
Don't lie down after a meal. Wait at least three hours after eating before lying down or going to bed.
Eat food slowly and chew thoroughly. Put down your fork after every bite and pick it up again once you have chewed and swallowed that bite.
Don't consume foods and drinks that trigger reflux. Common triggers include alcohol, chocolate, caffeine, fatty foods or peppermint.
Don't wear tight-fitting clothing. Clothes that fit tightly around the waist put pressure on the abdomen and the lower esophageal sphincter.
Symptoms for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) :
Common symptoms of GERD include:
A burning sensation in the chest, often called heartburn. Heartburn usually happens after eating and might be worse at night or while lying down.
Backwash of food or sour liquid in the throat.
Upper belly or chest pain.
Trouble swallowing, called dysphagia.
Sensation of a lump in the throat.
If you have nighttime acid reflux, you also might experience:
An ongoing cough.
Inflammation of the vocal cords, known as laryngitis.
New or worsening asthma.
Causes for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) :
GERD is caused by frequent acid reflux or reflux of nonacidic content from the stomach.
When you swallow, a circular band of muscle around the bottom of the esophagus, called the lower esophageal sphincter, relaxes to allow food and liquid to flow into the stomach. Then the sphincter closes again.
If the sphincter does not relax as is typical or it weakens, stomach acid can flow back into the esophagus. This constant backwash of acid irritates the lining of the esophagus, often causing it to become inflamed.
Risk Factors for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD):
Conditions that can increase the risk of GERD include:
Obesity.
Bulging of the top of the stomach up above the diaphragm, known as a hiatal hernia.
Pregnancy.
Connective tissue disorders, such as scleroderma.
Delayed stomach emptying.
Factors that can aggravate acid reflux include:
Smoking.
Eating large meals or eating late at night.
Eating certain foods, such as fatty or fried foods.
Drinking certain beverages, such as alcohol or coffee.
Taking certain medicines, such as aspirin.
Complications for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD):
Over time, long-lasting inflammation in the esophagus can cause:
Inflammation of the tissue in the esophagus, known as esophagitis. Stomach acid can break down tissue in the esophagus. This can cause inflammation, bleeding and sometimes an open sore, called an ulcer. Esophagitis can cause pain and make swallowing difficult.
Narrowing of the esophagus, called an esophageal stricture. Damage to the lower esophagus from stomach acid causes scar tissue to form. The scar tissue narrows the food pathway, leading to problems with swallowing.
Precancerous changes to the esophagus, known as Barrett esophagus. Damage from acid can cause changes in the tissue lining the lower esophagus. These changes are associated with an increased risk of esophageal cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gastrointestinal bleeding
Overview of Gastrointestinal bleeding:
Gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding is a sign of a disorder in the digestive tract. The blood often shows up in stool or vomit but isn't always obvious. Stool may look black or tarry. Bleeding can range from mild to severe and can be life-threatening.
Imaging technology or an endoscopic investigation can usually locate the cause of the bleeding. Treatment depends on the where the bleeding is located and how severe it is.
There are no home remedies available for Gastrointestinal bleeding in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gastrointestinal bleeding :
Symptoms of GI bleeding can be easy to see, called overt, or not so obvious, known as occult. Symptoms depend on the rate of bleeding as well as the location of the bleed, which can be anywhere on the GI tract, from where it starts — the mouth — to where it ends — the anus.
Overt bleeding might show up as:
Vomiting blood, which might be red or might be dark brown and look like coffee grounds.
Black, tarry stool.
Rectal bleeding, usually in or with stool.
With occult bleeding, you might have:
Lightheadedness.
Difficulty breathing.
Fainting.
Chest pain.
Abdominal pain.
Causes for Gastrointestinal bleeding :
Gastrointestinal bleeding can happen either in the upper or lower gastrointestinal tract.
There are no Risk Factors available for Gastrointestinal bleeding in the knowledge baseComplications for Gastrointestinal bleeding:
A gastrointestinal bleed can cause:
Anemia.
Shock.
Death.
There are no preventive measures available for Gastrointestinal bleeding in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)
Overview of Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST):
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gastroparesis
Overview of Gastroparesis:
Gastroparesis is a condition in which the muscles in the stomach don't move food as they should for it to be digested.
Most often, muscles contract to send food through the digestive tract. But with gastroparesis, the stomach's movement, called motility, slows or doesn't work at all. This keeps the stomach from emptying well.
Often, the cause of gastroparesis is not known. Sometimes it's linked to diabetes. And some people get gastroparesis after surgery or after a viral illness.
Certain medicines, such as opioid pain relievers, some antidepressants, and medicines for high blood pressure, weight loss and allergies can slow stomach emptying. The symptoms can be like those of gastroparesis. For people who already have gastroparesis, these medicines may make the condition worse.
Gastroparesis affects digestion. It can cause nausea, vomiting and belly pain. It also can cause problems with blood sugar levels and nutrition. There's no cure for gastroparesis. But medicines and changes to diet can give some relief.
Home Remedies for Gastroparesis:
If you smoke, stop. Your gastroparesis symptoms are less likely to improve over time if you keep smoking.
Symptoms for Gastroparesis :
Symptoms of gastroparesis include:
Vomiting.
Nausea.
Belly bloating.
Belly pain.
Feeling full after eating just a few bites and long after eating a meal.
Vomiting undigested food eaten a few hours earlier.
Acid reflux.
Changes in blood sugar levels.
Not wanting to eat.
Weight loss and not getting enough nutrients, called malnutrition.
Many people with gastroparesis don't notice any symptoms.
Causes for Gastroparesis :
It's not always clear what leads to gastroparesis. But sometimes damage to a nerve that controls the stomach muscles can cause it. This nerve is called the vagus nerve.
The vagus nerve helps manage what happens in the digestive tract. This includes telling the muscles in the stomach to contract and push food into the small intestine. A damaged vagus nerve can't send signals to the stomach muscles as it should. This may cause food to stay in the stomach longer.
Conditions such as diabetes or surgery to the stomach or small intestine can damage the vagus nerve and its branches.
Risk Factors for Gastroparesis:
Factors that can raise the risk of gastroparesis include:
Diabetes.
Surgery on the stomach area or on the tube that connects the throat to the stomach, called the esophagus.
Infection with a virus.
Certain cancers and cancer treatments, such as radiation therapy to the chest or stomach.
Certain medicines that slow the rate of stomach emptying, such as opioid pain medicines.
A condition that causes the skin to harden and tighten, called scleroderma.
Nervous system diseases, such as migraine, Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis.
Underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism.
People assigned female at birth are more likely to get gastroparesis than are people assigned male at birth.
There are no Complications available for Gastroparesis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Gastroparesis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gaucher disease
Overview of Gaucher disease:
Gaucher (go-SHAY) disease is the result of a buildup of certain fatty substances in certain organs, particularly your spleen and liver. This causes these organs to enlarge and can affect their function.
The fatty substances also can build up in bone tissue, weakening the bone and increasing the risk of fractures. If the bone marrow is affected, it can interfere with your blood's ability to clot.
An enzyme that breaks down these fatty substances doesn't work properly in people with Gaucher disease. Treatment often includes enzyme replacement therapy.
An inherited disorder, Gaucher disease is most common in Jewish people of Eastern and Central European descent (Ashkenazi). Symptoms can appear at any age.
There are no home remedies available for Gaucher disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gaucher disease :
There are different types of Gaucher disease, and signs and symptoms of disease vary widely, even within the same type. Type 1 is by far the most common.
Siblings, even identical twins, with the disease can have different levels of severity. Some people who have Gaucher disease have only mild or no symptoms.
Most people who have Gaucher disease have varying degrees of the following problems:
Abdominal complaints. Because the liver and especially the spleen can enlarge dramatically, the abdomen can become painfully distended.
Skeletal abnormalities. Gaucher disease can weaken bone, increasing the risk of painful fractures. It can also interfere with the blood supply to your bones, which can cause portions of the bone to die.
Blood disorders. A decrease in healthy red blood cells (anemia) can result in severe fatigue. Gaucher disease also affects the cells responsible for clotting, which can cause easy bruising and nosebleeds.
More rarely, Gaucher disease affects the brain, which can cause abnormal eye movements, muscle rigidity, swallowing difficulties and seizures. One rare subtype of Gaucher disease begins in infancy and typically results in death by 2 years of age.
Causes for Gaucher disease :
Gaucher disease is passed along in an inheritance pattern called autosomal recessive. Both parents must be carriers of a Gaucher changed (mutated) gene for their child to inherit the condition.
Risk Factors for Gaucher disease:
People of Eastern and Central European Jewish (Ashkenazi) ancestry are at higher risk of developing the most common variety of Gaucher disease.
Complications for Gaucher disease:
Gaucher disease can result in:
Delays in growth and puberty in children
Gynecological and obstetric problems
Parkinson's disease
Cancers such as myeloma, leukemia and lymphoma
There are no preventive measures available for Gaucher disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gender dysphoria
Overview of Gender dysphoria:
Gender dysphoria is the feeling of discomfort or distress that might occur in people whose gender identity differs from their sex assigned at birth or sex-related physical characteristics.
Transgender and gender-diverse people might experience gender dysphoria at some point in their lives. However, some transgender and gender-diverse people feel at ease with their bodies, with or without medical intervention.
A diagnosis for gender dysphoria is included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), a manual published by the American Psychiatric Association. The diagnosis was created to help people with gender dysphoria get access to necessary health care and effective treatment. The term focuses on discomfort as the problem, rather than identity.
There are no home remedies available for Gender dysphoria in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gender dysphoria :
Gender dysphoria might cause adolescents and adults to experience a marked difference between inner gender identity and assigned gender that lasts for at least six months. The difference is shown by at least two of the following:
A difference between gender identity and genitals or secondary sex characteristics, such as breast size, voice and facial hair. In young adolescents, a difference between gender identity and anticipated secondary sex characteristics.
A strong desire to be rid of these genitals or secondary sex characteristics, or a desire to prevent the development of secondary sex characteristics.
A strong desire to have the genitals and secondary sex characteristics of another gender.
A strong desire to be or to be treated as another gender.
A strong belief of having the typical feelings and reactions of another gender.
Gender dysphoria may also cause significant distress that affects how you function in social situations, at work or school, and in other areas of life.
Gender dysphoria might start in childhood and continue into adolescence and adulthood. Or you might have periods in which you no longer experience gender dysphoria. You might also experience gender dysphoria around the time of puberty or much later in life.
There are no Causes available for Gender dysphoria in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Gender dysphoria in the knowledge baseComplications for Gender dysphoria:
Gender dysphoria can affect many aspects of life, including daily activities. People experiencing gender dysphoria might have difficulty in school due to pressure to dress in a way that's associated with their sex assigned at birth or out of fear of being harassed or teased.
If gender dysphoria impairs the ability to function at school or at work, the result may be school dropout or unemployment. Relationship difficulties are common. Anxiety, depression, self-harm, eating disorders, substance misuse and other problems can occur.
People who have gender dysphoria also often experience discrimination, resulting in stress. Accessing health services and mental health services can be difficult due to fear of stigma and a lack of experienced care providers.
Adolescents and adults with gender dysphoria without gender-affirming treatment might be at risk of thinking about or attempting suicide.
There are no preventive measures available for Gender dysphoria in the knowledge baseCondition name:Generalized anxiety disorder
Overview of Generalized anxiety disorder:
It's normal to feel anxious from time to time, especially if your life is stressful. However, excessive, ongoing anxiety and worry that are difficult to control and interfere with day-to-day activities may be a sign of generalized anxiety disorder.
It's possible to develop generalized anxiety disorder as a child or an adult. Generalized anxiety disorder has symptoms that are similar to panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder and other types of anxiety, but they're all different conditions.
Living with generalized anxiety disorder can be a long-term challenge. In many cases, it occurs along with other anxiety or mood disorders. In most cases, generalized anxiety disorder improves with psychotherapy or medications. Making lifestyle changes, learning coping skills and using relaxation techniques also can help.
Home Remedies for Generalized anxiety disorder:
While most people with anxiety disorders need psychotherapy or medications to get anxiety under control, lifestyle changes also can make a difference. Here's what you can do:
Keep physically active. Develop a routine so that you're physically active most days of the week. Exercise is a powerful stress reducer. It may improve your mood and help you stay healthy. Start out slowly and gradually increase the amount and intensity of your activities.
Make sleep a priority. Do what you can to make sure you're getting enough sleep to feel rested. If you aren't sleeping well, see your doctor.
Use relaxation techniques. Visualization techniques, meditation and yoga are examples of relaxation techniques that can ease anxiety.
Eat healthy. Healthy eating â€” such as focusing on vegetables, fruits, whole grains and fish â€” may be linked to reduced anxiety, but more research is needed.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. These substances can worsen anxiety.
Quit smoking and cut back or quit drinking coffee. Both nicotine and caffeine can worsen anxiety.
More Information
Generalized anxiety disorder care at Mayo Clinic
Anxiety and diet
Herbal treatment for anxiety: Is it effective?
Symptoms for Generalized anxiety disorder :
Generalized anxiety disorder symptoms can vary. They may include:
Persistent worrying or anxiety about a number of areas that are out of proportion to the impact of the events
Overthinking plans and solutions to all possible worst-case outcomes
Perceiving situations and events as threatening, even when they aren't
Difficulty handling uncertainty
Indecisiveness and fear of making the wrong decision
Inability to set aside or let go of a worry
Inability to relax, feeling restless, and feeling keyed up or on edge
Difficulty concentrating, or the feeling that your mind "goes blank"
Physical signs and symptoms may include:
Fatigue
Trouble sleeping
Muscle tension or muscle aches
Trembling, feeling twitchy
Nervousness or being easily startled
Sweating
Nausea, diarrhea or irritable bowel syndrome
Irritability
There may be times when your worries don't completely consume you, but you still feel anxious even when there's no apparent reason. For example, you may feel intense worry about your safety or that of your loved ones, or you may have a general sense that something bad is about to happen.
Your anxiety, worry or physical symptoms cause you significant distress in social, work or other areas of your life. Worries can shift from one concern to another and may change with time and age.
Children and teenagers may have similar worries to adults, but also may have excessive worries about:
Performance at school or sporting events
Family members' safety
Being on time (punctuality)
Earthquakes, nuclear war or other catastrophic events
A child or teen with excessive worry may:
Feel overly anxious to fit in
Be a perfectionist
Redo tasks because they aren't perfect the first time
Spend excessive time doing homework
Lack confidence
Strive for approval
Require a lot of reassurance about performance
Have frequent stomachaches or other physical complaints
Avoid going to school or avoid social situations
Some anxiety is normal, but see your doctor if:
You feel like you're worrying too much, and it's interfering with your work, relationships or other parts of your life
You feel depressed or irritable, have trouble with drinking or drugs, or you have other mental health concerns along with anxiety
You have suicidal thoughts or behaviors — seek emergency treatment immediately
Your worries are unlikely to simply go away on their own, and they may actually get worse over time. Try to seek professional help before your anxiety becomes severe — it may be easier to treat early on.
Causes for Generalized anxiety disorder :
As with many mental health conditions, the cause of generalized anxiety disorder likely arises from a complex interaction of biological and environmental factors, which may include:
Differences in brain chemistry and function
Genetics
Differences in the way threats are perceived
Development and personality
Risk Factors for Generalized anxiety disorder:
Women are diagnosed with generalized anxiety disorder somewhat more often than men are. The following factors may increase the risk of developing generalized anxiety disorder:
Personality. A person whose temperament is timid or negative or who avoids anything dangerous may be more prone to generalized anxiety disorder than others are.
Genetics. Generalized anxiety disorder may run in families.
Experiences. People with generalized anxiety disorder may have a history of significant life changes, traumatic or negative experiences during childhood, or a recent traumatic or negative event. Chronic medical illnesses or other mental health disorders may increase risk.
Complications for Generalized anxiety disorder:
Having generalized anxiety disorder can be disabling. It can:
Impair your ability to perform tasks quickly and efficiently because you have trouble concentrating
Take your time and focus from other activities
Sap your energy
Increase your risk of depression
Generalized anxiety disorder can also lead to or worsen other physical health conditions, such as:
Digestive or bowel problems, such as irritable bowel syndrome or ulcers
Headaches and migraines
Chronic pain and illness
Sleep problems and insomnia
Heart-health issues
Generalized anxiety disorder often occurs along with other mental health problems, which can make diagnosis and treatment more challenging. Some mental health disorders that commonly occur with generalized anxiety disorder include:
Phobias
Panic disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Depression
Suicidal thoughts or suicide
Substance abuse
Preventions for Generalized anxiety disorder
There's no way to predict for certain what will cause someone to develop generalized anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you experience anxiety:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Prioritize issues in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even nicotine or caffeine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a treatment program or support group to help you.
Condition name:Genital herpes
Overview of Genital herpes:
Genital herpes is a common sexually transmitted infection (STI). The herpes simplex virus (HSV) causes genital herpes. Genital herpes can often be spread by skin-to-skin contact during sexual activity.
Some people infected with the virus may have very mild symptoms or no symptoms. They can still able to spread the virus. Other people have pain, itching and sores around the genitals, anus or mouth.
There is no cure for genital herpes. Symptoms often show up again after the first outbreak. Medicine can ease symptoms. It also lowers the risk of infecting others. Condoms can help prevent the spread of a genital herpes infection.
There are no home remedies available for Genital herpes in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Genital herpes :
Most people infected with HSV don't know they have it. They may have no symptoms or have very mild symptoms.
Symptoms start about 2 to 12 days after exposure to the virus. They may include:
Pain or itching around the genitals
Small bumps or blisters around the genitals, anus or mouth
Painful ulcers that form when blisters rupture and ooze or bleed
Scabs that form as the ulcers heal
Painful urination
Discharge from the urethra, the tube that releases urine from the body
Discharge from the vagina
During the first outbreak, you may commonly have flu-like symptoms such as:
Fever
Headache
Body aches
Swollen lymph nodes in the groin
Causes for Genital herpes :
Genital herpes is caused by two types of herpes simplex virus. These types include herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) and herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1). People with HSV infections can pass along the virus even when they have no visible symptoms.
Risk Factors for Genital herpes:
A higher risk of getting genital herpes is linked to:
Contact with genitals through oral, vaginal or anal sex. Having sexual contact without using a barrier increases your risk of genital herpes. Barriers include condoms and condom-like protectors called dental dams used during oral sex. Women are at higher risk of getting genital herpes. The virus can spread more easily from men to women than from women to men.
Having sex with multiple partners. The number of people you have sex with is a strong risk factor. Contact with genitals through sex or sexual activity puts you at higher risk. Most people with genital herpes do not know they have it.
Having a partner who has the disease but is not taking medicine to treat it. There is no cure for genital herpes, but medicine can help limit outbreaks.
Certain groups within the population. Women, people with a history of sexually transmitted diseases, older people, Black people in in the United States and men who have sex with men diagnosed with genital herpes at a higher than average rate. People in groups at higher risk may choose to talk to a health care provider about their personal risk.
Complications for Genital herpes:
Complications associated with genital herpes may include:
Other sexually transmitted infections. Having genital sores raises your risk of giving or getting other STIs, including HIV/AIDS.
Newborn infection. A baby can be infected with HSV during delivery. Less often, the virus is passed during pregnancy or by close contact after delivery. Newborns with HSV often have infections of internal organs or the nervous system. Even with treatment, these newborns have a high risk of developmental or physical problems and a risk of death.
Internal inflammatory disease. HSV infection can cause swelling and inflammation within the organs associated with sexual activity and urination. These include the ureter, rectum, vagina, cervix and uterus.
Finger infection. An HSV infection can spread to a finger through a break in the skin causing discoloration, swelling and sores. The infections are called herpetic whitlow.
Eye infection. HSV infection of the eye can cause pain, sores, blurred vision and blindness.
Swelling of the brain. Rarely, HSV infection leads to inflammation and swelling of the brain, also called encephalitis.
Infection of internal organs. Rarely, HSV in the bloodstream can cause infections of internal organs.
Preventions for Genital herpes
Prevention of genital herpes is the same as preventing other sexually transmitted infections.
Have one long-term sexual partner who has been tested for STIs and isn't infected.
Use a condom or dental dam during sexual activity. These reduce the risk of disease, but they don't prevent all skin-to-skin contact during sex.
Don't have sex when a partner with genital herpes has symptoms.
Condition name:Genital warts
Overview of Genital warts:
Genital warts are one of the most common types of sexually transmitted infections. The virus that causes the warts is called human papillomavirus (HPV). There are various types of HPV. And nearly all sexually active people will become infected with at least one type at some point.
Genital warts affect the moist tissues of the genital area. They can look like small, skin-colored bumps. The bumps may resemble cauliflower. Often, the warts are too small to be seen with your eyes.
Some strains of genital HPV can cause genital warts. Others can cause cancer. Vaccines can help protect against certain strains of genital HPV.
There are no home remedies available for Genital warts in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Genital warts :
Genital warts can grow on the:
Vulva.
Walls of the vagina.
Area between the outer part of the genitals and the anus.
Anal canal.
Cervix.
Tip or shaft of the penis.
Scrotum.
Anus.
Genital warts also can form in the mouth or throat of a person who has had oral sex with an infected person.
The symptoms of genital warts include:
Small swellings in the genital area that may be skin-colored or a different color.
A cauliflower-like shape caused by a few warts close together.
Itching or discomfort in your genital area.
Bleeding with sex.
Genital warts can be so small and flat that you can't see them. But rarely, they can multiply into large clusters in someone with a weakened immune system.
Causes for Genital warts :
The human papillomavirus (HPV) causes warts. There are more than 40 strains of HPV that affect the genital area.
Genital warts almost always are spread through sexual contact. Even if your warts are too small to be seen, you could spread the infection to your sexual partner.
Risk Factors for Genital warts:
Most people who are sexually active get infected with genital HPV at some time. Factors that can raise your risk of infection include:
Not getting the HPV vaccine.
Having sex without a condom or with more than one partner.
Having had another sexually transmitted infection.
Having sex with a partner whose sexual history you don't know.
Becoming sexually active at a young age.
Having a weakened immune system, such as from HIV or medicines from an organ transplant.
Complications for Genital warts:
An HPV infection can lead to health problems such as:
Cancer. Cervical cancer has been closely linked with genital HPV infection. Certain types of HPV also are linked with cancers of the vulva, anus, penis, and mouth and throat.
HPV infection doesn't always lead to cancer. But it's important for women to have regular Pap tests, which check for cancer of the cervix. Pap tests are key for those who've been infected with higher-risk types of HPV.
Problems during pregnancy. Rarely during pregnancy, warts can become larger. This makes it hard to urinate. Warts on the vaginal wall can hinder the stretching of vaginal tissues during childbirth. Large warts on the vulva or in the vagina can bleed when stretched during delivery.
Very rarely, a baby born to a pregnant person with genital warts get warts in the throat. The baby might need surgery to keep the airway from being blocked.
Preventions for Genital warts
Get the HPV vaccine to help prevent genital warts. And if you have sex, limit your number of partners. It's safest to have sex with just one partner who only has sex with you. It's also a good idea to use a condom every time you have sex. But this won't fully protect you from genital warts. That's because HPV can infect parts of the body that the condom doesn't cover.
Condition name:Geographic tongue
Overview of Geographic tongue:
Geographic tongue is an inflammatory but harmless condition affecting the surface of the tongue. The tongue usually is covered with tiny, pinkish-white bumps called papillae. These papillae are actually fine, hairlike structures. With geographic tongue, patches on the surface of the tongue are missing papillae. These patches are smooth and red, often with slightly raised borders.
This condition is called geographic tongue because the patches make your tongue look like a map. The patches often appear in one area and then move to a different part of the tongue.
Although geographic tongue may look alarming, it does not cause health issues. It's not related to infection or cancer. Geographic tongue sometimes can cause tongue pain and make you more sensitive to certain foods, such as spices, salt and even sweets.
Home Remedies for Geographic tongue:
Most people with geographic tongue don't experience symptoms. But if you have symptoms, you may reduce pain by staying away from or limiting substances that commonly make sensitive oral tissues feel worse. These substances include spicy or acidic foods or beverages, as well as alcohol and tobacco.
Symptoms for Geographic tongue :
Symptoms of geographic tongue may include:
Smooth, red, irregularly shaped patches on the top or side of your tongue. These patches may look like sores.
Frequent changes in the location, size and shape of the patches.
Pain or burning feeling in some cases, most often related to eating spicy or acidic foods.
Many people with geographic tongue have no symptoms.
Geographic tongue can continue for days, months or years. The problem often goes away on its own, but it may appear again later.
Causes for Geographic tongue :
The cause of geographic tongue is not known, and there's no way to prevent it. There may be a link between geographic tongue and other conditions, such as psoriasis. This is a skin disease that causes a rash with itchy, scaly patches. But more research is needed to learn about possible connections to other health conditions.
Risk Factors for Geographic tongue:
Factors that may increase your risk of geographic tongue include:
Family history. Some people with geographic tongue have a family history of it. So genetic factors may raise the risk.
Fissured tongue. People with geographic tongue often have a condition called fissured tongue. This is when deep grooves, called fissures, appear on the surface of the tongue.
Complications for Geographic tongue:
Geographic tongue is harmless, but it can sometimes be uncomfortable. It does not pose a threat to your health, cause long-term complications or raise your risk of major health problems.
This condition can cause anxiety. That's because the appearance of the tongue may be embarrassing, depending on how well the patches can be seen. It also may be hard to believe that nothing is seriously wrong.
There are no preventive measures available for Geographic tongue in the knowledge baseCondition name:Germ cell tumors
Overview of Germ cell tumors:
Germ cell tumors are growths of cells that form from reproductive cells. The tumors may be cancerous or not cancerous. Most germ cell tumors occur in the testicles or the ovaries.
Some germ cell tumors occur in other areas of the body, such as the abdomen, brain and chest, though it's not clear why. Germ cell tumors that occur in places other than the testicles and ovaries (extragonadal germ cell tumors) are very rare.
Treatment options for germ cell tumors may include surgery to remove the tumor, chemotherapy with drugs that kill cancer cells and radiation therapy with powerful energy beams.
There are no home remedies available for Germ cell tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Germ cell tumors :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Germ cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Germ cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Germ cell tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Germ cell tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Giant cell arteritis
Overview of Giant cell arteritis:
Giant cell arteritis is an inflammation of the lining of your arteries. Most often, it affects the arteries in your head, especially those in your temples. For this reason, giant cell arteritis is sometimes called temporal arteritis.
Giant cell arteritis frequently causes headaches, scalp tenderness, jaw pain and vision problems. Untreated, it can lead to blindness.
Prompt treatment with corticosteroid medications usually relieves symptoms of giant cell arteritis and might prevent loss of vision. You'll likely begin to feel better within days of starting treatment. But even with treatment, relapses are common.
You'll need to visit your doctor regularly for checkups and treatment of any side effects from taking corticosteroids.
Home Remedies for Giant cell arteritis:
When giant cell arteritis is diagnosed and treated early, the prognosis is usually excellent. Your symptoms will likely improve quickly after beginning corticosteroid treatment, and your vision isn't likely to be affected.
The following suggestions might help you manage your condition and cope with side effects of your medication:
Eat a healthy diet. Eating well can help prevent potential problems, such as thinning bones, high blood pressure and diabetes. Emphasize fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean meats and fish, while limiting salt, sugar and alcohol.
Be sure to get enough calcium and vitamin D. Experts recommend 1,200 milligrams (mg) of calcium and 800 international units (IU) of vitamin D a day for women over 50 and men over 70. Check with your doctor to see what dose is right for you.
Exercise regularly. Regular aerobic exercise, such as walking, can help prevent bone loss, high blood pressure and diabetes. It also benefits your heart and lungs. In addition, many people find that exercise improves their mood and overall sense of well-being.
If you're not used to exercising, start out slowly and build up gradually. Your doctor can help you plan an exercise program.
Get checkups. See your doctor regularly to check for side effects of treatment and development of complications.
Ask about aspirin. Ask your doctor about taking between 75 and 150 mg of aspirin daily. Taken daily, low-dose aspirin might reduce the risk of blindness and stroke.
Symptoms for Giant cell arteritis :
The most common symptoms of giant cell arteritis are head pain and tenderness — often severe — that usually affects both temples. Head pain can progressively worsen, come and go, or subside temporarily.
Generally, signs and symptoms of giant cell arteritis include:
Persistent, severe head pain, usually in your temple area
Scalp tenderness
Jaw pain when you chew or open your mouth wide
Fever
Fatigue
Unintended weight loss
Vision loss or double vision, particularly in people who also have jaw pain
Sudden, permanent loss of vision in one eye
Pain and stiffness in the neck, shoulders or hips are common symptoms of a related disorder, polymyalgia rheumatica. About 50 percent of people with giant cell arteritis also have polymyalgia rheumatica.
Causes for Giant cell arteritis :
With giant cell arteritis, the lining of arteries becomes inflamed, causing them to swell. This swelling narrows your blood vessels, reducing the amount of blood — and, therefore, oxygen and vital nutrients — that reaches your body's tissues.
Almost any large or medium-sized artery can be affected, but swelling most often occurs in the arteries in the temples. These are just in front of your ears and continue up into your scalp.
What causes these arteries to become inflamed isn't known, but it's thought to involve abnormal attacks on artery walls by the immune system. Certain genes and environmental factors might increase your susceptibility to the condition.
Risk Factors for Giant cell arteritis:
Several factors can increase your risk of developing giant cell arteritis, including:
Age. Giant cell arteritis affects adults only, and rarely those under 50. Most people with this condition develop signs and symptoms between the ages of 70 and 80.
Sex. Women are about two times more likely to develop the condition than men are.
Race and geographic region. Giant cell arteritis is most common among white people in Northern European populations or of Scandinavian descent.
Polymyalgia rheumatica. Having polymyalgia rheumatica puts you at increased risk of developing giant cell arteritis.
Family history. Sometimes the condition runs in families.
Complications for Giant cell arteritis:
Giant cell arteritis can cause serious complications, including:
Blindness. Diminished blood flow to your eyes can cause sudden, painless vision loss in one or, rarely, both eyes. Loss of vision is usually permanent.
Aortic aneurysm. An aneurysm is a bulge that forms in a weakened blood vessel, usually in the large artery that runs down the center of your chest and abdomen (aorta). An aortic aneurysm might burst, causing life-threatening internal bleeding.
Because this complication can occur even years after the diagnosis of giant cell arteritis, your doctor might monitor your aorta with annual chest X-rays or other imaging tests, such as ultrasound and CT.
Stroke. This is an uncommon complication of giant cell arteritis.
There are no preventive measures available for Giant cell arteritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Gingivitis
Overview of Gingivitis:
Gingivitis is a common and mild form of gum disease, also called periodontal disease. It causes irritation, redness, swelling and bleeding of your gingiva, which is the part of your gum around the base of your teeth. It's important to take gingivitis seriously and treat it promptly. Gingivitis does not cause bone loss. But left untreated, it can lead to a much more serious gum disease, called periodontitis, and tooth loss.
The most common cause of gingivitis is not keeping your teeth and gums clean and healthy. Good oral health habits, such as brushing at least twice a day, flossing daily and getting regular dental checkups, can help prevent and reverse gingivitis.
Home Remedies for Gingivitis:
Steps you can take at home to prevent and reverse gingivitis include:
Brush your teeth twice a day or, better yet, after every meal or snack.
Use a soft toothbrush and replace it at least every three months.
Think about using an electric toothbrush, which may remove plaque and tartar better.
Floss daily. If you have a hard time handling dental floss, try a floss holder. Or floss with a dental pick, brush or stick designed to clean between your teeth. Work with your dentist or dental hygienist to determine the best dental tool that fits your needs.
Use a mouth rinse to reduce plaque between your teeth.
Get regular professional dental cleanings on a schedule recommended by your dentist.
Don't smoke or chew tobacco.
Symptoms for Gingivitis :
Healthy gums are firm and pale pink. They fit tightly around the teeth. Symptoms of gingivitis include:
Swollen or puffy gums.
Bright red or dark red gums, or gums that are darker than usual.
Gums that bleed easily when you brush or floss.
Tender gums.
Bad breath.
Causes for Gingivitis :
The most common cause of gingivitis is poor care of teeth and gums, which allows plaque to form on teeth. This causes swelling of the surrounding gum tissues.
Here's how plaque can lead to gingivitis:
Plaque forms on your teeth. Plaque is a sticky film that has no color. It's mainly made up of bacteria that form on your teeth after eating starches and sugars in food. Plaque needs to be removed every day because it forms quickly.
Plaque turns into tartar. Plaque that stays on your teeth can harden under your gumline into tartar. This tartar, also known as calculus, then collects bacteria. Tartar makes plaque harder to remove, creates a protective shield for bacteria and irritates the gumline. You need professional dental cleaning to remove tartar.
Gingiva becomes irritated and swells. The gingiva is the part of your gum around the base of your teeth. The longer that plaque and tartar remain on your teeth, the more they irritate the gingiva. In time, your gums become swollen and bleed easily. This is called gingivitis. If not treated, gingivitis can lead to tooth decay, periodontitis and tooth loss.
Risk Factors for Gingivitis:
Gingivitis is common, and anyone can develop it. Factors that can increase your risk of gingivitis include:
Poor oral care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Older age.
Dry mouth.
Poor nutrition, including not getting enough vitamin C.
Repairs to teeth that don't fit properly or are in poor condition, such as fillings, bridges, dental implants or veneers.
Crooked teeth that are hard to clean.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS or cancer treatment.
Certain drugs, such as phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek, others) for epileptic seizures and some calcium channel blockers used for angina, high blood pressure and other conditions.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy, the menstrual cycle or use of birth control pills.
Certain genes.
Medical conditions, such as certain viral and fungal infections.
Complications for Gingivitis:
Untreated gingivitis can lead to gum disease that spreads to underlying tissue and bone, called periodontitis. This is a much more serious condition that can lead to tooth loss.
Ongoing gum disease may be related to some diseases that affect the entire body, such as respiratory disease, diabetes, coronary artery disease, stroke and rheumatoid arthritis. Some research suggests that the bacteria responsible for periodontitis can enter your bloodstream through gum tissue, possibly affecting your heart, lungs and other parts of your body. But more studies are needed to confirm a link.
Trench mouth, also known as necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis or NUG, is a severe form of gingivitis that causes painful, infected, bleeding gums and ulcers. Trench mouth is rare today in developed nations, though it's common in developing countries that have poor nutrition and poor living conditions.
Preventions for Gingivitis
To prevent gingivitis:
Practice good oral care. That means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice daily — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Better yet, brush after every meal or snack or as your dentist recommends. Flossing before you brush cleans away loosened food particles and bacteria.
Go to the dentist regularly. See your dentist or dental hygienist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often. Annual dental X-rays can help pinpoint diseases not seen by a visual dental exam and watch for changes in your dental health.
Take steps to lead a healthy lifestyle. Practices such as healthy eating and managing blood sugar if you have diabetes, for example, also are important to supporting gum health.
Condition name:Glaucoma
Overview of Glaucoma:
Glaucoma is a group of eye conditions that damage the optic nerve. The optic nerve sends visual information from your eye to your brain and is vital for good vision. Damage to the optic nerve is often related to high pressure in your eye. But glaucoma can happen even with normal eye pressure.
Glaucoma can occur at any age but is more common in older adults. It is one of the leading causes of blindness for people over the age of 60.
Many forms of glaucoma have no warning signs. The effect is so gradual that you may not notice a change in vision until the condition is in its later stages.
It's important to have regular eye exams that include measurements of your eye pressure. If glaucoma is recognized early, vision loss can be slowed or prevented. If you have glaucoma, you'll need treatment or monitoring for the rest of your life.
Home Remedies for Glaucoma:
These tips may help you control high eye pressure or promote eye health.
Eat a healthy diet. Eating a healthy diet can help you maintain your health, but it won't prevent glaucoma from worsening. Several vitamins and nutrients are important to eye health, including zinc, copper, selenium and antioxidant vitamins C, E and A.
Exercise safely. Regular exercise may reduce eye pressure. Talk to your health care provider about an appropriate exercise program.
Limit your caffeine. Drinking beverages with large amounts of caffeine may increase your eye pressure.
Sip fluids carefully. Drink moderate amounts of fluids. Drinking a quart or more of any liquid within a short time may temporarily increase eye pressure.
Take prescribed medicine. Using your eye drops or other medicines as prescribed can help you get the best possible result from your treatment. Be sure to use the drops exactly as prescribed. Otherwise, your optic nerve damage could get worse.
Symptoms for Glaucoma :
The symptoms of glaucoma depend on the type and stage of your condition.
Causes for Glaucoma :
Glaucoma develops when the optic nerve becomes damaged. As this nerve gradually deteriorates, blind spots develop in your vision. For reasons that doctors don't fully understand, this nerve damage is usually related to increased pressure in the eye.
Elevated eye pressure happens as the result of a buildup of fluid that flows throughout the inside of the eye. This fluid also is known as the aqueous humor. It usually drains through a tissue located at the angle where the iris and cornea meet. This tissue also is called the trabecular meshwork. The cornea is important to vision because it lets light into the eye. When the eye makes too much fluid or the drainage system doesn't work properly, eye pressure may increase.
Risk Factors for Glaucoma:
Glaucoma can damage vision before you notice any symptoms. So be aware of these risk factors:
High internal eye pressure, also known as intraocular pressure
Age over 55
Black, Asian or Hispanic heritage
Family history of glaucoma
Certain medical conditions, such as diabetes, migraines, high blood pressure and sickle cell anemia
Corneas that are thin in the center
Extreme nearsightedness or farsightedness
Eye injury or certain types of eye surgery
Taking corticosteroid medicines, especially eye drops, for a long time
Some people have narrow drainage angles, putting them at increased risk of angle-closure glaucoma.
There are no Complications available for Glaucoma in the knowledge basePreventions for Glaucoma
These steps may help detect and manage glaucoma in its early stages. That may help to prevent vision loss or slow its progress.
Get regular eye examinations. Regular comprehensive eye exams can help detect glaucoma in its early stages, before significant damage occurs. As a general rule, the American Academy of Ophthalmology recommends a comprehensive eye exam every 5 to 10 years if you're under 40 years old; every 2 to 4 years if you're 40 to 54 years old; every 1 to 3 years if you're 55 to 64 years old; and every 1 to 2 years if you're older than 65.
If you're at risk of glaucoma, you'll need more frequent screening. Ask your health care provider to recommend the right screening schedule for you.
Know your family's eye health history. Glaucoma tends to run in families. If you're at increased risk, you may need more frequent screening.
Wear eye protection. Serious eye injuries can lead to glaucoma. Wear eye protection when using power tools or playing sports.
Take prescribed eye drops regularly. Glaucoma eye drops can significantly reduce the risk that high eye pressure will progress to glaucoma. Use eye drops as prescribed by your health care provider even if you have no symptoms.
Condition name:Glioblastoma
Overview of Glioblastoma:
Glioblastoma is a type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the brain or spinal cord. It grows quickly and can invade and destroy healthy tissue. Glioblastoma forms from cells called astrocytes that support nerve cells.
Glioblastoma can happen at any age. But it tends to happen more often in older adults. Glioblastoma symptoms may include headaches that keep getting worse, nausea and vomiting, blurred or double vision, trouble speaking, altered sense of touch, and seizures. There also may be trouble with balance, coordination, and moving parts of the face or body.
There's no cure for glioblastoma. Treatments might slow cancer growth and reduce symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Glioblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Glioblastoma :
Signs and symptoms of glioblastoma may include:
Headache, particularly one that hurts the most in the morning.
Nausea and vomiting.
Confusion or a decline in brain function, such as problems with thinking and understanding information.
Memory loss.
Personality changes or irritability.
Vision changes, such as blurred vision, double vision or loss of peripheral vision.
Speech difficulties.
Trouble with balance or coordination.
Muscle weakness in the face, arms or legs.
Reduced sensation of touch.
Seizures, especially in someone who hasn't had seizures before.
Causes for Glioblastoma :
The cause of most glioblastomas isn't known.
Glioblastoma happens when cells in the brain or spinal cord develop changes in their DNA. Healthcare professionals sometimes call these changes mutations or variations. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to press on nearby nerves and parts of the brain or spinal cord. This leads to glioblastoma symptoms and can cause complications. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue.
Risk Factors for Glioblastoma:
Factors that can increase the risk of glioblastoma include:
Getting older. Glioblastomas are most common in older adults. But glioblastoma can happen at any age.
Being exposed to radiation. People who have been exposed to a type of radiation called ionizing radiation have an increased risk of glioblastoma. One example of ionizing radiation is radiation therapy used to treat cancer.
Inherited syndromes that increase cancer risk. In some families, DNA changes passed from parents to children may increase the risk of glioblastoma. Inherited syndromes may include Lynch syndrome and Li-Fraumeni syndrome. Genetic testing can detect these syndromes.
Researchers haven't found anything you can do to prevent glioblastoma.
There are no Complications available for Glioblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Glioblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Glioma
Overview of Glioma:
Glioma is a growth of cells that starts in the brain or spinal cord. The cells in a glioma look similar to healthy brain cells called glial cells. Glial cells surround nerve cells and help them function.
As a glioma grows it forms a mass of cells called a tumor. The tumor can grow to press on brain or spinal cord tissue and cause symptoms. Symptoms depend on which part of the brain or spinal cord is affected.
There are many types of glioma. Some grow slowly and aren't considered to be cancers. Others are considered cancerous. Another word for cancerous is malignant. Malignant gliomas grow quickly and can invade healthy brain tissue. Some types of glioma happen mostly in adults. Others happen mostly in kids.
The type of glioma you have helps your health care team understand how serious your condition is and what treatments might work best. In general, glioma treatment options include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and others.
There are no home remedies available for Glioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Glioma :
Glioma symptoms depend on the location of the glioma. Symptoms also may depend on the type of glioma, its size and how quickly it's growing.
Common signs and symptoms of gliomas include:
Headache, particularly one that hurts the most in the morning.
Nausea and vomiting.
Confusion or a decline in brain function, such as problems with thinking and understanding information.
Memory loss.
Personality changes or irritability.
Vision problems, such as blurred vision, double vision or loss of peripheral vision.
Speech difficulties.
Seizures, especially in someone who hasn't had seizures before.
Causes for Glioma :
Doctors aren't sure what causes glioma. It starts when cells in the brain or spinal cord develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do.
The DNA changes tell the cells to make more cells quickly. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells that don't work right. The cells form a mass called a tumor.
The tumor can grow to press on nearby nerves and parts of the brain or spinal cord. This leads to glioma symptoms and can cause complications.
Some gliomas develop more changes in their DNA that cause them to become brain cancers. The changes tell the cells to invade and destroy healthy brain tissue.
In glioma, the tumor cells look similar to healthy brain cells called glial cells. The glial cells surround and support nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord.
Risk Factors for Glioma:
Things that can increase the risk of glioma include:
Getting older. Gliomas are most common in adults between ages 45 and 65 years old. But glioma can happen at any age. Certain types of gliomas are more common in children and young adults.
Being exposed to radiation. People who have been exposed to a type of radiation called ionizing radiation have an increased risk of glioma. One example of ionizing radiation is radiation therapy used to treat cancer.
Having a family history of glioma. Glioma can run in families, but this is very rare. More research is needed to understand whether parents can pass a risk of glioma to their children.
Researchers haven't found anything you can do to prevent glioma.
There are no Complications available for Glioma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Glioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Glomerulonephritis
Overview of Glomerulonephritis:
Glomerulonephritis (gloe-MER-u-loe-nuh-FRY-tis) is inflammation of the tiny filters in the kidneys (glomeruli). The excess fluid and waste that glomeruli (gloe-MER-u-lie) remove from the bloodstream exit the body as urine. Glomerulonephritis can come on suddenly (acute) or gradually (chronic).
Glomerulonephritis occurs on its own or as part of another disease, such as lupus or diabetes. Severe or prolonged inflammation associated with glomerulonephritis can damage the kidneys. Treatment depends on the type of glomerulonephritis you have.
Home Remedies for Glomerulonephritis:
If you have kidney disease, your doctor might recommend certain lifestyle changes:
Lower your salt intake to prevent or minimize fluid retention, swelling and hypertension.
Consume less protein and potassium to slow the buildup of wastes in your blood.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Take your medications as directed by your health care provider.
Control your blood sugar level if you have diabetes.
Quit smoking.
Symptoms for Glomerulonephritis :
Signs and symptoms of glomerulonephritis may vary depending on whether you have the acute or chronic form and the cause. You may notice no symptoms of chronic disease. Your first indication that something is wrong might come from the results of a routine urine test (urinalysis).
Glomerulonephritis signs and symptoms may include:
Pink or cola-colored urine from red blood cells in your urine (hematuria).
Foamy or bubbly urine due to excess protein in the urine (proteinuria).
High blood pressure (hypertension).
Fluid retention (edema) with swelling evident in your face, hands, feet and abdomen.
Urinating less than usual.
Nausea and vomiting.
Muscle cramps.
Fatigue.
Causes for Glomerulonephritis :
Many conditions can cause glomerulonephritis. Sometimes the disease runs in families and sometimes the cause is unknown. Factors that can lead to inflammation of the glomeruli include the following conditions.
Risk Factors for Glomerulonephritis:
Some autoimmune diseases are linked with glomerulonephritis.
Complications for Glomerulonephritis:
Glomerulonephritis affects the ability of nephrons to filter the bloodstream efficiently. The breakdown in filtering results in:
Accumulation of wastes or toxins in the bloodstream.
Poor regulation of essential minerals and nutrients.
Loss of red blood cells.
Loss of blood proteins.
Possible complications of glomerulonephritis include:
Acute kidney failure. Acute kidney failure is the sudden, rapid decline in kidney function, often associated with an infectious cause of glomerulonephritis. The accumulation of waste and fluids can be life-threatening if not treated promptly with an artificial filtering machine (dialysis). The kidneys often resume typical function after recovery.
Chronic kidney disease. Persistent inflammation results in long-term damage and declining function of the kidneys. Chronic kidney disease is generally defined as kidney damage or decreased function for three or more months. Chronic kidney disease may advance to end-stage kidney disease, which requires either dialysis or a kidney transplant.
High blood pressure. Damage to the glomeruli from inflammation or scarring can lead to increased blood pressure.
Nephrotic syndrome. Nephrotic syndrome is a condition in which there is too much blood protein in urine and too little in the bloodstream. These proteins play a role in regulating fluids and cholesterol levels. A drop in blood proteins results in high cholesterol, high blood pressure and swelling (edema) of the face, hands, feet and abdomen. In rare instances, nephrotic syndrome may cause a blood clot in a kidney blood vessel.
Preventions for Glomerulonephritis
There may be no way to prevent some forms of glomerulonephritis. However, here are some steps that might be beneficial:
Seek prompt treatment of a strep infection with a sore throat or impetigo.
To prevent infections that can lead to some forms of glomerulonephritis, such as HIV and hepatitis, follow safe-sex guidelines and avoid intravenous drug use.
Control high blood pressure, which lessens the likelihood of damage to your kidneys from hypertension.
Control your blood sugar to help prevent diabetic nephropathy.
Condition name:Golfer's elbow
Overview of Golfer's elbow:
Golfer's elbow is a condition that causes pain where the tendons of your forearm muscles attach to the bony bump on the inside of your elbow. The pain might spread into your forearm and wrist.
Golfer's elbow is similar to tennis elbow, which occurs on the outside of the elbow. It's not limited to golfers. Tennis players and others who repeatedly use their wrists or clench their fingers also can develop golfer's elbow.
The pain of golfer's elbow doesn't have to keep you off the course or away from your favorite activities. Rest and appropriate treatment can get you back into the swing of things.
There are no home remedies available for Golfer's elbow in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Golfer's elbow :
Golfer's elbow is characterized by:
Pain and tenderness. Usually felt on the inner side of your elbow, the pain sometimes extends along the inner side of your forearm. Pain typically worsens with certain movements.
Stiffness. Your elbow may feel stiff, and making a fist might hurt.
Weakness. You may have weakness in your hands and wrists.
Numbness or tingling. These sensations might radiate into one or more fingers — usually the ring and little fingers.
The pain of golfer's elbow can come on suddenly or gradually. The pain might worsen with certain movements, such as swinging a golf club.
Causes for Golfer's elbow :
Golfer's elbow, also known as medial epicondylitis, is caused by damage to the muscles and tendons that control your wrist and fingers. The damage is typically related to excess or repeated stress — especially forceful wrist and finger motions. Improper lifting, throwing or hitting, as well as too little warmup or poor conditioning, also can contribute to golfer's elbow.
Besides golf, many activities and occupations can lead to golfer's elbow, including:
Racket sports. Improper technique with tennis strokes, especially the backhand, can cause injury to the tendon. Excessive use of topspin and using a racket that's too small or heavy also can lead to injury.
Throwing sports. Improper pitching technique in baseball or softball can be another culprit. Football, archery and javelin throwing also can cause golfer's elbow.
Weight training. Lifting weights using improper technique, such as curling the wrists during a biceps exercise, can overload the elbow muscles and tendons.
Forceful, repetitive occupational movements. These occur in fields such as construction, plumbing and carpentry
To cause golfer's elbow, the activity generally needs to be done for more than an hour a day on many days.
Risk Factors for Golfer's elbow:
You could be at higher risk of developing golfer's elbow if you're:
Age 40 or older
Performing repetitive activity at least two hours a day
Obese
A smoker
There are no Complications available for Golfer's elbow in the knowledge basePreventions for Golfer's elbow
You can take steps to prevent golfer's elbow:
Strengthen your forearm muscles. Use light weights or squeeze a tennis ball. Even simple exercises can help your muscles absorb the energy of sudden physical stress.
Stretch before your activity. Walk or jog for a few minutes to warm up your muscles. Then do gentle stretches before you begin your game.
Fix your form. Whatever your sport, ask an instructor to check your form to avoid overload on muscles.
Use the right equipment. If you're using older golfing irons, consider upgrading to lighter graphite clubs. If you play tennis, make sure your racket fits you. A racket with a small grip or a heavy head may increase the risk of elbow problems.
Lift properly. When lifting anything — including free weights — keep your wrist rigid and stable to reduce the force to your elbow.
Know when to rest. Try not to overuse your elbow. At the first sign of elbow pain, take a break.
Condition name:Gonorrhea
Overview of Gonorrhea:
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted infection, also called a sexually transmitted disease, caused by bacteria. Sexually transmitted diseases are infections spread mainly by contact with genitals or bodily fluids. Also called STDs, STIs or venereal disease, sexually transmitted infections are caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites.
Gonorrhea bacteria can infect the urethra, rectum, female reproductive tract, mouth, throat or eyes. Gonorrhea is most commonly spread during vaginal, oral or anal sexual activity. But babies can get the infection during childbirth. In babies, gonorrhea most commonly affects the eyes.
Avoiding sexual activity and not having sex prevents the spread of gonorrhea. Using a condom during sexual activity can help prevent the spread of gonorrhea. Being in a mutually monogamous relationship, in which both partners have sex only with each other and neither partner is infected, also limits the risk of an infection.
There are no home remedies available for Gonorrhea in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Gonorrhea :
In many people, gonorrhea infection causes no symptoms. If there are symptoms, they often affect the genital tract, but also may occur in other places.
Causes for Gonorrhea :
Gonorrhea is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The gonorrhea bacteria are most often passed from one person to another during sexual contact, including oral, anal or vaginal intercourse.
Risk Factors for Gonorrhea:
Sexually active women younger than 25 and men who have sex with men are at increased risk of getting gonorrhea.
Other factors that can increase your risk include:
Having a new sex partner.
Having a sex partner who has other partners.
Having more than one sex partner.
Having had gonorrhea or another sexually transmitted infection.
Complications for Gonorrhea:
Untreated gonorrhea can lead to major complications, such as:
Infertility in women. Gonorrhea can spread into the uterus and fallopian tubes, causing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID can result in scarring of the tubes, greater risk of pregnancy complications and infertility. PID requires immediate treatment.
Infertility in men. Gonorrhea can cause inflammation in epididymis, the coiled tube above and behind the testicles that stores and transports sperm. This inflammation is known as epididymitis and without treatment it can lead to infertility.
Infection that spreads to the joints and other areas of the body. The bacterium that causes gonorrhea can spread through the bloodstream and infect other parts of the body, including joints. Fever, rash, skin sores, joint pain, swelling and stiffness are possible results.
Increased risk of HIV/AIDS. Having gonorrhea makes you more susceptible to infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the virus that leads to AIDS. People who have both gonorrhea and HIV can pass both diseases more readily to their partners.
Complications in babies. Babies who get gonorrhea during birth can develop blindness, sores on the scalp and infections.
Preventions for Gonorrhea
To lower your risk of getting gonorrhea:
Use a condom if you have sex. Not having sex and avoiding sexual activity is the surest way to prevent gonorrhea. But if you choose to have sex, use a condom during any type of sexual contact, including anal sex, oral sex or vaginal sex.
Limit your number of sex partners. Being in a monogamous relationship in which neither partner has sex with anyone else can lower your risk.
Be sure you and your partner are tested for sexually transmitted infections. Before you have sex, get tested and share the results with each other.
Don't have sex with someone who appears to have a sexually transmitted infection. If someone has symptoms of a sexually transmitted infection, such as burning during urination or a genital rash or sore, don't have sex with that person.
Consider regular gonorrhea screening. Annual screening is recommended for sexually active women younger than 25 and for older women at increased risk of infection. This includes women who have new sex partners, more than one sex partner, sex partners with other partners, or sex partners who have sexually transmitted infections.
Regular screening also is recommended for men who have sex with men. Their partners also should be tested.
A medicine called doxycycline may be an option to prevent infection among people at higher risk than average of getting gonorrhea. Higher risk groups include men who have sex with men and transgender women.
Taking doxycycline within 3 days of sexual activity lowers the risk of an infection with the bacteria that cause gonorrhea. Your healthcare professional can prescribe doxycycline and any testing you need while taking the medicine.
If you've been diagnosed with gonorrhea, do not have sex until after you and your sex partner have completed treatment and after symptoms are gone. This helps avoid getting gonorrhea again.
Condition name:Gout
Overview of Gout:
Gout is a common and complex form of arthritis that can affect anyone. It's characterized by sudden, severe attacks of pain, swelling, redness and tenderness in one or more joints, most often in the big toe.
An attack of gout can occur suddenly, often waking you up in the middle of the night with the sensation that your big toe is on fire. The affected joint is hot, swollen and so tender that even the weight of the bedsheet on it may seem intolerable.
Gout symptoms may come and go, but there are ways to manage symptoms and prevent flares.
Home Remedies for Gout:
Medications are often the most effective way to treat gout attacks and prevent recurrent symptom flares. However, lifestyle choices also are important, and you may want to:
Choose healthier beverages. Limit alcoholic beverages and drinks sweetened with fruit sugar (fructose). Instead, drink plenty of nonalcoholic beverages, especially water.
Avoid foods high in purines. Red meat and organ meats, such as liver, are especially high in purines. Purine-rich seafood includes anchovies, sardines, mussels, scallops, trout and tuna. Low-fat dairy products may be a better source of protein for people prone to gout.
Exercise regularly and lose weight. Keeping your body at a healthy weight reduces your risk of gout. Choose low-impact activities such as walking, bicycling and swimming â€” which are easier on your joints.
Symptoms for Gout :
The signs and symptoms of gout almost always occur suddenly, and often at night. They include:
Intense joint pain. Gout usually affects the big toe, but it can occur in any joint. Other commonly affected joints include the ankles, knees, elbows, wrists and fingers. The pain is likely to be most severe within the first four to 12 hours after it begins.
Lingering discomfort. After the most severe pain subsides, some joint discomfort may last from a few days to a few weeks. Later attacks are likely to last longer and affect more joints.
Inflammation and redness. The affected joint or joints become swollen, tender, warm and red.
Limited range of motion. As gout progresses, you may not be able to move your joints normally.
Causes for Gout :
Gout occurs when urate crystals accumulate in your joint, causing the inflammation and intense pain of a gout attack. Urate crystals can form when you have high levels of uric acid in your blood. Your body produces uric acid when it breaks down purines — substances that are found naturally in your body.
Purines are also found in certain foods, including red meat and organ meats, such as liver. Purine-rich seafood includes anchovies, sardines, mussels, scallops, trout and tuna. Alcoholic beverages, especially beer, and drinks sweetened with fruit sugar (fructose) promote higher levels of uric acid.
Normally, uric acid dissolves in your blood and passes through your kidneys into your urine. But sometimes either your body produces too much uric acid or your kidneys excrete too little uric acid. When this happens, uric acid can build up, forming sharp, needlelike urate crystals in a joint or surrounding tissue that cause pain, inflammation and swelling.
Risk Factors for Gout:
You're more likely to develop gout if you have high levels of uric acid in your body. Factors that increase the uric acid level in your body include:
Diet. Eating a diet rich in red meat and shellfish and drinking beverages sweetened with fruit sugar (fructose) increase levels of uric acid, which increase your risk of gout. Alcohol consumption, especially of beer, also increases the risk of gout.
Weight. If you're overweight, your body produces more uric acid and your kidneys have a more difficult time eliminating uric acid.
Medical conditions. Certain diseases and conditions increase your risk of gout. These include untreated high blood pressure and chronic conditions such as diabetes, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and heart and kidney diseases.
Certain medications. Low-dose aspirin and some medications used to control hypertension — including thiazide diuretics, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and beta blockers — also can increase uric acid levels. So can the use of anti-rejection drugs prescribed for people who have undergone an organ transplant.
Family history of gout. If other members of your family have had gout, you're more likely to develop the disease.
Age and sex. Gout occurs more often in men, primarily because women tend to have lower uric acid levels. After menopause, however, women's uric acid levels approach those of men. Men are also more likely to develop gout earlier — usually between the ages of 30 and 50 — whereas women generally develop signs and symptoms after menopause.
Recent surgery or trauma. Experiencing recent surgery or trauma can sometimes trigger a gout attack. In some people, receiving a vaccination can trigger a gout flare.
Complications for Gout:
People with gout can develop more-severe conditions, such as:
Recurrent gout. Some people may never experience gout signs and symptoms again. Others may experience gout several times each year. Medications may help prevent gout attacks in people with recurrent gout. If left untreated, gout can cause erosion and destruction of a joint.
Advanced gout. Untreated gout may cause deposits of urate crystals to form under the skin in nodules called tophi (TOE-fie). Tophi can develop in several areas, such as your fingers, hands, feet, elbows or Achilles tendons along the backs of your ankles. Tophi usually aren't painful, but they can become swollen and tender during gout attacks.
Kidney stones. Urate crystals may collect in the urinary tracts of people with gout, causing kidney stones. Medications can help reduce the risk of kidney stones.
There are no preventive measures available for Gout in the knowledge baseCondition name:Granuloma annulare
Overview of Granuloma annulare:
Granuloma annulare (gran-u-LOW-muh an-u-LAR-e) is a skin condition that causes a raised rash or bumps in a ring pattern. The most common type affects young adults, usually on the hands and feet.
Minor skin injuries and some medicines might trigger the condition. It's not contagious and usually not painful, but it can make you feel self-conscious. And if it becomes a long-term condition, it can cause emotional distress.
Treatment might clear the skin gradually, but the bumps tend to come back. Untreated, the condition might last from a few weeks to decades.
There are no home remedies available for Granuloma annulare in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Granuloma annulare :
The signs and symptoms of granuloma annulare can vary, depending on the type:
Localized. This is the most common type of granuloma annulare. The rash borders are circular or semicircular, with a diameter up to 2 inches (5 centimeters). The rash occurs most commonly on the hands, feet, wrists and ankles of young adults.
Generalized. This type is uncommon and usually affects adults. It causes bumps that form a rash on most of the body, including the trunk, arms and legs. The rash might cause discomfort or itchiness.
Under the skin. A type that usually affects young children is called subcutaneous granuloma annulare. It produces small, firm lumps under the skin, instead of a rash. The lumps form on the hands, shins and scalp.
Causes for Granuloma annulare :
It's not clear what causes granuloma annulare. Sometimes it's triggered by:
Animal or insect bites
Infections, such as hepatitis
Tuberculin skin tests
Vaccinations
Sun exposure
Minor skin injuries
Medicines
Granuloma annulare is not contagious.
Risk Factors for Granuloma annulare:
Granuloma annulare can be related to diabetes or thyroid disease, most often when you have many bumps all over the body. It may, rarely, be related to cancer, especially in older people whose granuloma annulare is severe, doesn't respond to treatment or returns after cancer treatment.
There are no Complications available for Granuloma annulare in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Granuloma annulare in the knowledge baseCondition name:Granulomatosis with polyangiitis
Overview of Granulomatosis with polyangiitis:
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis is an uncommon disorder that causes inflammation of the blood vessels in your nose, sinuses, throat, lungs and kidneys.
Formerly called Wegener's granulomatosis, this condition is one of a group of blood vessel disorders called vasculitis. It slows blood flow to some of your organs. The affected tissues can develop areas of inflammation called granulomas, which can affect how these organs work.
Early diagnosis and treatment of granulomatosis with polyangiitis might lead to a full recovery. Without treatment, the condition can be fatal.
There are no home remedies available for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis :
Signs and symptoms of granulomatosis with polyangiitis can develop suddenly or over several months. The first warning signs usually involve your sinuses, throat or lungs. The condition often worsens rapidly, affecting blood vessels and the organs they supply, such as the kidneys.
Signs and symptoms of granulomatosis with polyangiitis might include:
Pus-like drainage with crusts from your nose, stuffiness, sinus infections and nosebleeds
Coughing, sometimes with bloody phlegm
Shortness of breath or wheezing
Fever
Fatigue
Joint pain
Numbness in your limbs, fingers or toes
Weight loss
Blood in your urine
Skin sores, bruising or rashes
Eye redness, burning or pain, and vision problems
Ear inflammation and hearing problems
For some people, the disease affects only the lungs. When the kidneys are affected, blood and urine tests can detect the problem. Without treatment, kidney or lung failure can occur.
Causes for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis :
The cause of granulomatosis with polyangiitis isn't known. It's not contagious, and there's no evidence that it's inherited.
The condition can lead to inflamed, narrowed blood vessels and harmful inflammatory tissue masses (granulomas). Granulomas can destroy normal tissue, and narrowed blood vessels reduce the amount of blood and oxygen that reaches your body's tissues and organs.
Risk Factors for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis:
Granulomatosis with polyangiitis can occur at any age. It most often affects people between the ages of 40 and 65.
Complications for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis:
Besides affecting your nose, sinuses, throat, lungs and kidneys, granulomatosis with polyangiitis can affect your skin, eyes, ears, heart and other organs. Complications might include:
Hearing loss
Skin scarring
Kidney damage
A loss of height in the bridge of the nose (saddling) caused by weakened cartilage
A blood clot forming in one or more deep veins, usually in your leg
There are no preventive measures available for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Graves' disease
Overview of Graves' disease:
Graves' disease is an immune system condition that affects the thyroid gland. It causes the body to make too much thyroid hormone. That condition is called hyperthyroidism.
Thyroid hormones affect many organs in the body. So Graves' disease symptoms also can affect those organs. Anyone can get Graves' disease. But it's more common in women and in people older than 30.
Treatment for Graves' disease helps lower the amount of thyroid hormone that the body makes and eases symptoms.
Home Remedies for Graves' disease:
If you have Graves' disease, it's important to take care of your mental and physical health. This includes:
Eating well and exercising. These can help ease some symptoms during treatment and help you feel better overall. Your thyroid controls how you burn calories. So you may gain weight when the hyperthyroidism is corrected.
Brittle bones also can happen with Graves' disease. Weight-bearing exercises can help keep bones strong.
Easing stress. Stress can trigger Graves' disease or make it worse. Listening to music, taking a warm bath or walking can help you relax and put you in a better mood.
Work with your healthcare team to design a plan that makes eating well, exercising and relaxing part of each day.
Thyroid eye disease
For thyroid eye disease, also called Graves' ophthalmopathy, these steps may help:
Put cool, damp cloths on your eyes. This can soothe your eyes.
Wear sunglasses. Ultraviolet rays and bright lights can affect your eyes more if they bulge. Wearing sunglasses that wrap around the sides of your head can help. And they also can keep wind from bothering your eyes.
Use lubricating eye drops. Eye drops may relieve the dry, scratchy feeling of your eyes. Try a lubricating gel at night.
Raise the head of your bed. Keeping your head higher than the rest of your body lessens fluid buildup in the head and may ease the pressure on your eyes.
Tape shut the eyelids. If your eyelids don't close all the way, taping them shut during sleep or wearing a sleep mask might help.
Don't smoke. Smoking worsens thyroid eye disease.
Graves' dermopathy
If Graves' disease affects your skin, use creams or ointments that have hydrocortisone. You can buy these without a prescription. The hydrocortisone can ease swelling. Using compression wraps on your legs also may help.
Symptoms for Graves' disease :
Common symptoms of Graves' disease include:
Feeling nervous and irritable.
Having a slight tremor of the hands or fingers.
Being sensitive to heat with an increase in sweating or warm, moist skin.
Losing weight, despite wanting to eat more.
Having an enlarged thyroid gland, also called goiter.
Having changes in menstrual cycles.
Not being able to get or keep an erection, called erectile dysfunction, or having less desire for sex.
Having bowel movements often.
Having bulging eyes — a condition called thyroid eye disease or Graves' ophthalmopathy.
Being tired.
Having thick, discolored skin mostly on the shins or tops of the feet, called Graves' dermopathy.
Having fast or irregular heartbeat, called palpitations.
Not sleeping well.
Causes for Graves' disease :
Graves' disease is caused by the body's disease-fighting immune system not working correctly. Experts don't know why this happens.
The immune system makes antibodies that target viruses, bacteria or other foreign substances. In Graves' disease, the immune system makes an antibody to one part of the cells in the hormone-making gland in the neck, called the thyroid gland.
A tiny gland at the base of the brain, called the pituitary gland, makes a hormone that controls the thyroid gland. The antibody linked with Graves' disease is called thyrotropin receptor antibody (TRAb). TRAb takes over the work of the pituitary hormone. That leads to more thyroid hormone in the body than the body needs. That condition is called hyperthyroidism.
Risk Factors for Graves' disease:
Factors that can increase the risk of Graves' disease include:
Family history. People who get Graves' disease often have a family history of thyroid conditions or an autoimmune condition.
Sex. Women are much more likely to get Graves' disease than are men.
Age. Graves' disease mostly happens between the ages of 30 and 60.
Another autoimmune condition. People with other conditions of the immune system, such as type 1 diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis, have a higher risk.
Smoking. Cigarette smoking, which can affect the immune system, raises the risk of Graves' disease. People who smoke and have Graves' disease are at higher risk of getting thyroid eye disease.
Complications for Graves' disease:
Complications of Graves' disease can include:
Pregnancy health concerns. Graves' disease during pregnancy can cause miscarriage, early birth, fetal thyroid issues and poor fetal growth. It also can cause heart failure and preeclampsia in the pregnant person. Preeclampsia leads to high blood pressure and other serious symptoms.
Heart conditions. Graves' disease that isn't treated can lead to irregular heart rhythms and changes in the heart and how it works. The heart might not be able to pump enough blood to the body. That condition is called heart failure.
Thyroid storm. This rare but deadly complication of Graves' disease also is called accelerated hyperthyroidism or thyrotoxic crisis. It's more likely to happen when severe hyperthyroidism is not treated or not treated well enough.
Thyroid storm happens when a sudden and drastic rise in thyroid hormones causes a number of effects in the body. They include fever, sweating, confusion, delirium, severe weakness, tremors, irregular heartbeat, severe low blood pressure and coma. Thyroid storm needs medical attention right away.
Brittle bones. Hyperthyroidism that isn't treated can lead to weak, brittle bones — a condition called osteoporosis. The strength of the bones depends, in part, on the amount of calcium and other minerals they hold. Too much thyroid hormone makes it hard for the body to get calcium into the bones.
There are no preventive measures available for Graves' disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Growth plate fractures
Overview of Growth plate fractures:
A growth plate fracture affects the layer of growing tissue near the ends of a child's bones. Growth plates are the softest and weakest sections of the skeleton — sometimes even weaker than surrounding ligaments and tendons. An injury that might cause a joint sprain for an adult can cause a growth plate fracture in a child.
Growth plate fractures often need immediate treatment because they can affect how the bone will grow. An improperly treated growth plate fracture could result in a fractured bone ending up more crooked or shorter than its opposite limb. With proper treatment, most growth plate fractures heal without complications.
There are no home remedies available for Growth plate fractures in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Growth plate fractures :
Most growth plate fractures occur in bones of the fingers, forearm and lower leg. Signs and symptoms of a growth plate fracture may include:
Pain and tenderness, particularly in response to pressure on the growth plate
Inability to move the affected area or to put weight or pressure on the limb
Warmth and swelling at the end of a bone, near a joint
If you suspect a fracture, take your child to be examined by a doctor. Also have your child evaluated if you notice a visible deformity in your child's arms or legs, or if your child is having trouble playing sports because of persistent pain.
Causes for Growth plate fractures :
Growth plate fractures often are caused by a fall or a blow to the limb, as might occur in:
A car accident
Competitive sports, such as football, basketball, running, dancing or gymnastics
Recreational activities, such as biking, sledding, skiing or skateboarding
Growth plate fractures can occasionally be caused by overuse, which can occur during sports training or repetitive throwing.
Risk Factors for Growth plate fractures:
Growth plate fractures occur twice as often in boys as in girls, because girls finish growing earlier than do boys. By the age of 12, most girls' growth plates have already matured and been replaced with solid bone.
Complications for Growth plate fractures:
Most growth plate fractures heal with no complications. But the following factors can increase the risk of crooked, accelerated or stunted bone growth.
Severity of the injury. If the growth plate has been shifted, shattered or crushed, the risk of limb deformity is greater.
Age of the child. Younger children have more years of growth ahead of them, so if the growth plate is permanently damaged, there is more chance of deformity developing. If a child is almost done growing, permanent damage to the growth plate may cause only minimal deformity.
Location of the injury. The growth plates around the knee are more sensitive to injury. A growth plate fracture at the knee can cause the leg to be shorter, longer or crooked if the growth plate has permanent damage. Growth plate injuries around the wrist and shoulder usually heal without problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Growth plate fractures in the knowledge baseCondition name:Guillain-Barre syndrome
Overview of Guillain-Barre syndrome:
Guillain-Barre (gee-YAH-buh-RAY) syndrome is a condition in which the body's immune system attacks the nerves. It can cause weakness, numbness or paralysis.
Weakness and tingling in the hands and feet are usually the first symptoms. These sensations can quickly spread and may lead to paralysis. In its most serious form, Guillain-Barre syndrome is a medical emergency. Most people with the condition need treatment in a hospital.
Guillain-Barre syndrome is rare, and the exact cause is not known. But two-thirds of people have symptoms of an infection in the six weeks before Guillain-Barre symptoms begin. Infections can include a respiratory or a gastrointestinal infection, including COVID-19. Guillain-Barre also can be caused by the Zika virus.
There's no known cure for Guillain-Barre syndrome. Several treatment options can ease symptoms and help speed recovery. Most people recover completely from Guillain-Barre syndrome, but some serious illnesses can be fatal. While recovery may take up to several years, most people are able to walk again six months after symptoms first began. Some people may have lasting effects, such as weakness, numbness or fatigue.
There are no home remedies available for Guillain-Barre syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Guillain-Barre syndrome :
Guillain-Barre syndrome often begins with tingling and weakness starting in the feet and legs and spreading to the upper body and arms. Some people notice the first symptoms in the arms or face. As Guillain-Barre syndrome progresses, muscle weakness can turn into paralysis.
Symptoms of Guillain-Barre syndrome may include:
A pins and needles feeling in the fingers, toes, ankles or wrists.
Weakness in the legs that spreads to the upper body.
Unsteady walk or not being able to walk or climb stairs.
Trouble with facial movements, including speaking, chewing or swallowing.
Double vision or inability to move the eyes.
Severe pain that may feel achy, shooting or cramplike and may be worse at night.
Trouble with bladder control or bowel function.
Rapid heart rate.
Low or high blood pressure.
Trouble breathing.
People with Guillain-Barre syndrome usually experience their most significant weakness within two weeks after symptoms begin.
Causes for Guillain-Barre syndrome :
The exact cause of Guillain-Barre syndrome isn't known. It usually appears days or weeks after a respiratory or digestive tract infection. Rarely, recent surgery or vaccination can trigger Guillain-Barre syndrome.
In Guillain-Barre syndrome, your immune system — which usually attacks only invading organisms — begins attacking the nerves. In AIDP, the nerves' protective covering, known as the myelin sheath, is damaged. The damage prevents nerves from transmitting signals to your brain, causing weakness, numbness or paralysis.
Guillain-Barre syndrome may be triggered by:
Most commonly, an infection with campylobacter, a type of bacteria often found in undercooked poultry.
Influenza virus.
Cytomegalovirus.
Epstein-Barr virus.
Zika virus.
Hepatitis A, B, C and E.
HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Mycoplasma pneumonia.
Surgery.
Trauma.
Hodgkin lymphoma.
Rarely, influenza vaccinations or childhood vaccinations.
COVID-19 virus.
Risk Factors for Guillain-Barre syndrome:
Guillain-Barre syndrome can affect all age groups, but the risk increases as you age. It's also slightly more common in males than females.
Complications for Guillain-Barre syndrome:
Guillain-Barre syndrome affects your nerves. Because nerves control your movements and body functions, people with Guillain-Barre syndrome may experience:
Trouble breathing. Weakness or paralysis can spread to the muscles that control your breathing. This can potentially be fatal. Up to 22% of people with Guillain-Barre syndrome need temporary help from a machine to breathe within the first week when they're hospitalized for treatment.
Residual numbness or other sensations. Most people with Guillain-Barre syndrome recover completely or have only minor, residual weakness, numbness or tingling.
Heart and blood pressure problems. Blood pressure fluctuations and irregular heart rhythms are common side effects of Guillain-Barre syndrome.
Pain. One-third of people with Guillain-Barre syndrome experience nerve pain, which may be eased with medicine.
Trouble with bowel and bladder function. Sluggish bowel function and urine retention may result from Guillain-Barre syndrome.
Blood clots. People who are not mobile due to Guillain-Barre syndrome are at risk of developing blood clots. Until you're able to walk independently, you may need to take blood thinners and wear support stockings to improve blood flow.
Pressure sores. You may be at risk of developing bedsores, also known as pressure sores, if you're not able to move. Changing your position often may help avoid this problem.
Relapse. A small percentage of people with Guillain-Barre syndrome have a relapse. A relapse can cause muscle weakness even years after symptoms ended.
When early symptoms are worse, the risk of serious long-term complications goes up. Rarely, death may occur from complications such as respiratory distress syndrome and heart attacks.
There are no preventive measures available for Guillain-Barre syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:H1N1 flu (swine flu)
Overview of H1N1 flu (swine flu):
The H1N1 flu, sometimes called swine flu, is a type of influenza A virus.
During the 2009-10 flu season, a new H1N1 virus began causing illness in humans. It was often called swine flu and was a new combination of influenza viruses that infect pigs, birds and humans.
The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the H1N1 flu to be a pandemic in 2009. That year the virus caused an estimated 284,400 deaths worldwide. In August 2010, WHO declared the pandemic over. But the H1N1 flu strain from the pandemic became one of the strains that cause seasonal flu.
Most people with the flu get better on their own.
But flu and its complications can be deadly, especially for people at high risk. The seasonal flu vaccine can now help protect against the H1N1 flu and other seasonal flu viruses.
There are no home remedies available for H1N1 flu (swine flu) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for H1N1 flu (swine flu) :
The symptoms of flu caused by H1N1, commonly called the swine flu, are similar to those of other flu viruses.
Symptoms usually start quickly and can include:
Fever, but not always.
Aching muscles.
Chills and sweats.
Cough.
Sore throat.
Runny or stuffy nose.
Watery, red eyes.
Eye pain.
Body aches.
Headache.
Tiredness and weakness.
Diarrhea.
Feeling sick to the stomach, vomiting, but this is more common in children than adults.
Flu symptoms develop about 1 to 4 days after you're exposed to the virus.
Causes for H1N1 flu (swine flu) :
Influenza viruses such as H1N1 infect the cells that line your nose, throat and lungs. The virus spreads through the air in droplets released when someone with the virus coughs, sneezes, breathes or talks. The virus enters your body when you breathe in contaminated droplets. It also can enter your body if you touch a contaminated surface and then touch your eyes, nose or mouth.
You can't catch swine flu from eating pork.
People with the virus are likely able to spread the virus from about a day before symptoms appear until about four days after they start. Children and people with weakened immune systems may be able to spread the virus for a slightly longer time.
Risk Factors for H1N1 flu (swine flu):
Factors that may increase your risk of developing H1N1 or other influenza viruses or their complications include:
Age. Influenza tends to have worse outcomes in children under age 2, and adults older than age 65.
Living or working conditions. People who live or work in facilities with many other residents are more likely to get the flu. Some examples are nursing homes or military barracks. People who are staying in the hospital also are at higher risk.
Weakened immune system. Cancer treatments, anti-rejection medications, long-term use of steroids, organ transplant, blood cancer or HIV/AIDS can weaken the immune system. This can make it easier to catch the flu and may increase the risk of developing complications.
Chronic illnesses. Chronic conditions may increase the risk of influenza complications. Examples include asthma and other lung diseases, diabetes, heart disease, and nervous system diseases. Other examples are metabolic disorders, problems with an airway and kidney, liver or blood disease.
Race. American Indians or Alaska Native people may have a higher risk of influenza complications.
Aspirin use under age 19. People on long-term aspirin therapy and who are younger than 19 years of age are at risk of Reye syndrome if infected with influenza.
Pregnancy. Pregnant people are more likely to develop influenza complications, especially in the second and third trimesters. This risk continues up to two weeks after the baby is born.
Obesity. People with a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher have a higher risk of flu complications.
Complications for H1N1 flu (swine flu):
Influenza complications include:
Worsening of chronic conditions, such as heart disease and asthma.
Pneumonia.
Neurological symptoms, ranging from confusion to seizures.
Respiratory failure.
Bronchitis.
Muscle tenderness.
Bacterial infections.
Preventions for H1N1 flu (swine flu)
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends annual flu vaccination for everyone age 6 months or older. The H1N1 virus is included in the seasonal flu vaccine.
The flu vaccine can lower your risk of getting the flu. It also can lower the risk of having serious illness from the flu and needing to stay in the hospital.
Each year's seasonal flu vaccine protects against the three or four influenza viruses. These are the viruses expected to be the most common during that year's flu season.
Flu vaccination is especially important because the flu and coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) cause similar symptoms.
Both COVID-19 and the flu may be spreading at the same time. Vaccination is the best way to protect against both. Flu vaccination could lessen symptoms that might be confused with those caused by COVID-19.
Vaccination also helps lower the number of people with severe flu and complications. And that may lower the number of people needing to stay in the hospital.
The flu vaccine is available as an injection and as a nasal spray.
The nasal spray is approved for people between 2 and 49 years old. It isn't recommended for some groups, such as:
Children younger than age 2.
Adults age 50 and older.
Pregnant people.
Children between 2 and 17 years old who are taking aspirin or a salicylate-containing medication.
People with weakened immune systems.
Close contacts or caregivers of people with highly weakened immune systems. Examples are people receiving chemotherapy, or recent bone marrow or solid organ transplantation.
Children 2 to 4 years old who have had asthma or wheezing in the past 12 months.
If you have an egg allergy you can still get a flu vaccine.
These measures also help prevent the flu and limit its spread:
Wash your hands often. If available, use soap and water, washing for at least 20 seconds. Or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer that has at least 60% alcohol.
Cover your coughs and sneezes. Cough or sneeze into a tissue or your elbow. Then wash your hands.
Avoid touching your face. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth.
Clean and disinfect surfaces. Regularly clean often-touched surfaces to prevent spread of infection from a surface with the virus on it to your body.
Avoid contact with the virus. Try to avoid people who are sick or have symptoms of flu. And if you have symptoms, stay home if you can. When flu is spreading, consider keeping distance between yourself and others while indoors, especially in areas with poor air flow. If you're at high risk of complications from the flu consider avoiding swine barns at seasonal fairs and elsewhere.
Condition name:Hair loss
Overview of Hair loss:
Hair loss (alopecia) can affect just your scalp or your entire body, and it can be temporary or permanent. It can be the result of heredity, hormonal changes, medical conditions or a normal part of aging. Anyone can lose hair on their head, but it's more common in men.
Baldness typically refers to excessive hair loss from your scalp. Hereditary hair loss with age is the most common cause of baldness. Some people prefer to let their hair loss run its course untreated and unhidden. Others may cover it up with hairstyles, makeup, hats or scarves. And still others choose one of the treatments available to prevent further hair loss or restore growth.
Before pursuing hair loss treatment, talk with your doctor about the cause of your hair loss and treatment options.
There are no home remedies available for Hair loss in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hair loss :
Hair loss can appear in many different ways, depending on what's causing it. It can come on suddenly or gradually and affect just your scalp or your whole body.
Signs and symptoms of hair loss may include:
Gradual thinning on top of head. This is the most common type of hair loss, affecting people as they age. In men, hair often begins to recede at the hairline on the forehead. Women typically have a broadening of the part in their hair. An increasingly common hair loss pattern in older women is a receding hairline (frontal fibrosing alopecia).
Circular or patchy bald spots. Some people lose hair in circular or patchy bald spots on the scalp, beard or eyebrows. Your skin may become itchy or painful before the hair falls out.
Sudden loosening of hair. A physical or emotional shock can cause hair to loosen. Handfuls of hair may come out when combing or washing your hair or even after gentle tugging. This type of hair loss usually causes overall hair thinning but is temporary.
Full-body hair loss. Some conditions and medical treatments, such as chemotherapy for cancer, can result in the loss of hair all over your body. The hair usually grows back.
Patches of scaling that spread over the scalp. This is a sign of ringworm. It may be accompanied by broken hair, redness, swelling and, at times, oozing.
Causes for Hair loss :
People typically lose 50 to 100 hairs a day. This usually isn't noticeable because new hair is growing in at the same time. Hair loss occurs when new hair doesn't replace the hair that has fallen out.
Hair loss is typically related to one or more of the following factors:
Family history (heredity). The most common cause of hair loss is a hereditary condition that happens with aging. This condition is called androgenic alopecia, male-pattern baldness and female-pattern baldness. It usually occurs gradually and in predictable patterns — a receding hairline and bald spots in men and thinning hair along the crown of the scalp in women.
Hormonal changes and medical conditions. A variety of conditions can cause permanent or temporary hair loss, including hormonal changes due to pregnancy, childbirth, menopause and thyroid problems. Medical conditions include alopecia areata (al-o-PEE-she-uh ar-e-A-tuh), which is immune system related and causes patchy hair loss, scalp infections such as ringworm, and a hair-pulling disorder called trichotillomania (trik-o-til-o-MAY-nee-uh).
Medications and supplements. Hair loss can be a side effect of certain drugs, such as those used for cancer, arthritis, depression, heart problems, gout and high blood pressure.
Radiation therapy to the head. The hair may not grow back the same as it was before.
A very stressful event. Many people experience a general thinning of hair several months after a physical or emotional shock. This type of hair loss is temporary.
Hairstyles and treatments. Excessive hairstyling or hairstyles that pull your hair tight, such as pigtails or cornrows, can cause a type of hair loss called traction alopecia. Hot-oil hair treatments and permanents also can cause hair to fall out. If scarring occurs, hair loss could be permanent.
Risk Factors for Hair loss:
A number of factors can increase your risk of hair loss, including:
A family history of balding on your mother's or father's side
Age
Significant weight loss
Certain medical conditions, such as diabetes and lupus
Stress
Poor nutrition
There are no Complications available for Hair loss in the knowledge basePreventions for Hair loss
Most baldness is caused by genetics (male-pattern baldness and female-pattern baldness). This type of hair loss is not preventable.
These tips may help you avoid preventable types of hair loss:
Be gentle with your hair. Use a detangler and avoid tugging when brushing and combing, especially when your hair is wet. A wide-toothed comb might help prevent pulling out hair. Avoid harsh treatments such as hot rollers, curling irons, hot-oil treatments and permanents. Limit the tension on hair from styles that use rubber bands, barrettes and braids.
Ask your doctor about medications and supplements you take that might cause hair loss.
Protect your hair from sunlight and other sources of ultraviolet light.
Stop smoking. Some studies show an association between smoking and baldness in men.
If you're being treated with chemotherapy, ask your doctor about a cooling cap. This cap can reduce your risk of losing hair during chemotherapy.
Condition name:Hairy cell leukemia
Overview of Hairy cell leukemia:
Hairy cell leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells. The white blood cells help fight off germs. There are a few different types of white blood cells. The white blood cells involved in hairy cell leukemia are called B cells. B cells are also called B lymphocytes.
In hairy cell leukemia, the body makes too many B cells. The cells don't look like healthy B cells. Instead, they've undergone changes to become leukemia cells. The leukemia cells look "hairy" under a microscope.
Hairy cell leukemia cells keep living when healthy cells would die as part of the natural cell life cycle. The leukemia cells build up in the body and cause symptoms.
Hairy cell leukemia often gets worse slowly. Treatment might not need to start right away. When it's needed, treatment is usually with chemotherapy.
Scientists found a type of cancer that looks like hairy cell leukemia, but it gets worse much faster. This other type of cancer is called hairy cell leukemia variant. It's considered a separate type of cancer from hairy cell leukemia, even though it has a similar name.
There are no home remedies available for Hairy cell leukemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hairy cell leukemia :
Hairy cell leukemia might not cause symptoms. Sometimes a health care provider finds it by accident during a blood test for another condition.
When it causes symptoms, hairy cell leukemia might cause:
A feeling of fullness in your belly that may make it uncomfortable to eat more than a little at a time
Fatigue
Easy bruising
Recurring infections
Weakness
Losing weight without trying
Causes for Hairy cell leukemia :
It's not clear what causes hairy cell leukemia.
Hairy cell leukemia begins in the white blood cells. The white blood cells help fight germs in the body. There are a few types of white blood cells. The white blood cells involved in hairy cell leukemia are called B cells.
Hairy cell leukemia happens when B cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the B cells to make a lot more B cells that don't work right. These cells go on living when healthy cells would die as part of the natural cell life cycle.
The B cells that don't work right crowd out healthy blood cells in the bone marrow and other organs. This leads to the symptoms and complications of hairy cell leukemia. For example, the extra cells can cause swelling in the spleen, liver and lymph nodes. If there isn't enough room for healthy blood cells, this can lead to frequent infections, easy bruising and feeling very tired.
Risk Factors for Hairy cell leukemia:
The risk of hairy cell leukemia may be higher in:
Older adults. Hairy cell leukemia can happen at any age. But most people diagnosed with hairy cell leukemia are in their 50s or 60s. It's rare in children.
Males. Hairy cell leukemia can happen to anyone. But it's more likely in males.
Complications for Hairy cell leukemia:
Hairy cell leukemia often gets worse very slowly. Sometimes it stays stable for many years. For this reason, few complications of the disease occur.
There are no preventive measures available for Hairy cell leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hammertoe and mallet toe
Overview of Hammertoe and mallet toe:
Hammertoe and mallet toe are foot problems that cause a bend in a toe or toes. Wearing shoes that don't fit well can cause hammertoe and mallet toe. Other causes are foot injury and certain illnesses, such as diabetes. Often the cause isn't known.
A hammertoe has an unusual bend in the middle joint of a toe. Mallet toe has a bend in the joint nearest the toenail. Hammertoe and mallet toe usually occur in the second, third and fourth toes.
Changing footwear, wearing shoe inserts, and using other devices might relieve the pain and pressure of hammertoe and mallet toe. Surgery can correct the condition and relieve the pressure if these treatments don't work.
There are no home remedies available for Hammertoe and mallet toe in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hammertoe and mallet toe :
Hammertoe and mallet toe have an unusual bend in the joints of one or more of the toes. Other symptoms include:
Pain from wearing shoes.
Difficulty moving the affected toe.
Toe stiffness.
Redness and swelling.
Growth of corns and calluses from rubbing against shoes or against the ground.
Causes for Hammertoe and mallet toe :
Hammertoe and mallet toe have been linked to:
Certain shoes. High-heeled shoes or footwear that's too tight in the toe can crowd toes so they can't lie flat. In time, the toe might remain curled even when not in shoes.
Trauma. A toe that has been stubbed, jammed or broken might be more likely to develop hammertoe or mallet toe.
Imbalance of the toe muscles. If the muscles aren't balanced, they can put pressure on the tendons and joints. This imbalance can lead to hammertoe and mallet toe over time.
Risk Factors for Hammertoe and mallet toe:
Factors that can increase the risk of hammertoe and mallet toe include:
Sex. Women are more likely to develop hammertoe or mallet toe than are men.
Certain diseases. Arthritis and diabetes can increase the risk of having foot problems. Genes also might play a role.
Complications for Hammertoe and mallet toe:
For a while, the toe still might be able to unbend. But over time, the tendons and joints of a hammertoe or mallet toe might tighten. This can cause the toe to stay bent.
Shoes can rub against the higher part of the bent toe. The bent position also may lead to excess pressure on the bone of the toe tip instead of the fat pad on the toe. This can cause painful corns or calluses.
Preventions for Hammertoe and mallet toe
Shoes that fit well can prevent many foot, heel and ankle problems. Here's what to look for when buying shoes:
Enough toe room. Avoid shoes with pointed toes.
Low heels. Not wearing high heels will help prevent toe and back problems.
Shoes that adjust. Shoes with laces or straps are roomier and easier to make feel comfortable.
These added tips can help buying the right shoes:
Shop at the end of the day. Feet swell as the day goes on.
Check size. Shoe size — especially the width — can change with age. Measure both feet and buy for the larger foot.
Buy shoes that fit right away. Be sure shoes are comfortable before you buy them. A shoe repair store might be able to stretch shoes in tight spots, but it's better to buy them to fit.
Condition name:Hamstring injury
Overview of Hamstring injury:
A hamstring injury involves straining or pulling one of the hamstring muscles — the group of three muscles that run along the back of the thigh.
Hamstring injuries often occur in people who play sports that involves sprinting with sudden stops and starts. Examples include soccer, basketball, football and tennis. Hamstring injuries can occur in runners and in dancers as well.
Self-care measures such as rest, ice and pain medicine are often all that's needed to relieve the pain and swelling of a hamstring injury. Rarely, surgery is done to repair a hamstring muscle or tendon.
There are no home remedies available for Hamstring injury in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hamstring injury :
A hamstring injury typically causes a sudden, sharp pain in the back of the thigh. There might also be a "popping" or tearing sensation.
Swelling and tenderness usually develop within a few hours. There might be bruising or a change in skin color along the back of the leg. Some people have muscle weakness or are not able to put weight on the injured leg.
Causes for Hamstring injury :
The hamstring muscles are a group of three muscles that run along the back of the thigh from the hip to just below the knee. These muscles make it possible to extend the leg back and to bend the knee. Stretching or overloading any one of these muscles beyond its limit can cause injury.
Risk Factors for Hamstring injury:
Hamstring injury risk factors include:
Sports. Sports that require sprinting or running might make a hamstring injury more likely. So might other activities that can require extreme stretching, such as dancing.
Earlier hamstring injury. People who have had one hamstring injury are more likely to have another one. This is especially true for people who try to go back to the same activities before the muscles have time to heal.
Tired muscles, weak muscles and muscles that don't stretch well. Tired or weak muscles are more likely to be injured. Muscles with poor flexibility might not be able to bear the force of the action that certain activities require.
Muscle imbalance. Although not all experts agree, some suggest that a muscle imbalance may lead to a hamstring injury. If the quadricep muscles along the front of the thigh are stronger and more developed than the hamstring muscles, injury to the hamstring muscles might be more likely.
Age. Risk of injury increases with age.
Complications for Hamstring injury:
Returning to tiring activities before hamstring muscles are completely healed might cause the injury to happen again.
Preventions for Hamstring injury
Being in good physical condition and doing regular stretching and strengthening exercises can help lessen the risk of a hamstring injury. Try to be in shape to play your sport. Don't play your sport to get in shape.
If you have a job that's physically demanding, staying in shape can help prevent injuries. Ask your health care provider about good exercises to do regularly.
Condition name:Hangovers
Overview of Hangovers:
A hangover is a group of unpleasant symptoms that can happen after drinking too much alcohol. As if feeling awful weren't bad enough, frequent hangovers also are linked with poor performance and conflict at home, school and work.
Generally, the more alcohol you drink, the more likely you are to have a hangover the next day. But there's no easy way to know how much you can safely drink and still avoid a hangover.
However unpleasant, most hangovers go away on their own, though they can last up to 24 hours. If you choose to drink alcohol, doing so responsibly can help you stay away from hangovers.
There are no home remedies available for Hangovers in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hangovers :
Hangover symptoms often begin when your blood alcohol content drops and is at or near zero. Symptoms are usually in full effect the morning after a night of heavy drinking. Depending on what and how much alcohol you drank, you may notice:
Extreme tiredness and weakness.
Thirst and dry mouth.
Headache and muscle aches.
Nausea, vomiting or belly pain.
Poor sleep or not getting enough sleep.
Low tolerance for light and sound.
Dizziness or a sense of the room spinning.
Shakiness and sweating.
Problems concentrating or thinking clearly.
Changes in mood, such as depression, anxiety and irritability.
Fast heartbeat.
Causes for Hangovers :
Hangovers are caused by drinking too much alcohol. A single alcoholic drink is enough to trigger a hangover for some people, while others may drink heavily and not have a hangover.
Several issues may contribute to a hangover. For example:
Alcohol causes the body to make more urine. You lose extra body liquid by urinating more than usual. This can lead to dehydration. Symptoms of dehydration include extra thirst, tiredness, headache, dizziness and lightheadedness.
Alcohol triggers an inflammatory response from the immune system. The immune system may make certain substances linked to the body's defense system. This commonly causes physical symptoms that make you feel as if you're ill. Your symptoms also may include problems thinking clearly and remembering, poor appetite, and loss of interest in usual activities.
Alcohol irritates the lining of the stomach. Alcohol can irritate your stomach. Alcohol also causes your stomach to make more acid. This can cause belly pain, nausea or vomiting.
Alcohol can cause blood sugar levels to fall. If your blood sugar dips too low, you may feel extra tired, weak and shaky. You also may have mood changes and even seizures.
Alcohol prevents restful sleep. You may feel sleepy, but alcohol keeps you from getting the kind of sleep that helps you feel rested. Alcohol also often causes you to awaken in the middle of the night or too early in the morning. Not getting good-quality sleep may leave you groggy and tired.
Risk Factors for Hangovers:
Anyone who drinks alcohol can have a hangover. But some people are more likely to have hangovers than others are. A difference in a gene that affects the way the body breaks down alcohol may make some people flush, sweat or become ill after drinking even a small amount of alcohol.
Issues that may make a hangover more likely or worse include:
Drinking on an empty stomach. Having no food in your stomach speeds up how much and how fast alcohol enters the body.
Using other drugs, such as nicotine, along with alcohol. Smoking along with drinking appears to raise the likelihood of a hangover.
Not sleeping well or long enough after drinking. Some researchers believe that certain hangover symptoms are often due, at least in part, to how much sleep you get following a night of drinking. Poor-quality sleep and not getting enough sleep usually follow drinking alcohol.
Having a family history of alcohol use disorder. Having close relatives with a history of alcohol use disorder may suggest an inherited problem with the way your body processes alcohol.
Drinking darker colored alcoholic beverages. Darker colored drinks often contain a high level of congeners and may be more likely to produce a hangover.
Complications for Hangovers:
When you have a hangover, you're likely to have problems with:
Clear thinking and memory.
Attention and focus.
Tasks that require steady hands and body coordination.
Not surprisingly, this short-term dulling of your abilities increases your risk of problems at home, school and work, such as:
Problems being on time or not showing up at all.
Trouble finishing tasks.
Conflict with others.
Falling asleep at school or on the job.
Problems driving a car or using machinery.
Workplace injuries.
Preventions for Hangovers
Some companies use misleading advertising to claim that their products can prevent hangovers. But the only guaranteed way to prevent a hangover is to not drink alcohol.
If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Moderate alcohol use for healthy adults means:
Up to one drink a day for women.
Up to two drinks a day for men.
The less alcohol you drink, the less likely you are to have a hangover. It may help to:
Eat before and while drinking. Alcohol enters the body more quickly if your stomach is empty. It may help to eat something before drinking alcohol and during the time you're drinking.
Choose carefully. Beverages with fewer congeners are slightly less likely to cause hangovers than beverages with more congeners. But remember that all types of alcohol can cause a hangover.
Drink water between alcoholic drinks. Drinking a full glass of water after each alcoholic drink will help you stay hydrated. It'll also help you drink less alcohol.
Know your limits and only drink in moderation. Decide ahead of time how many drinks you'll have — and stick to it. Don't feel pressured to drink.
Take it slow. Don't have more than one alcoholic drink in an hour. Stop drinking completely when you've reached your limit — or before then.
Some people take pain relievers to prevent hangover symptoms. But ask your healthcare professional if this is safe for you and how much medicine is best for you. These medicines may not work well together with other medicines you take.
Aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) can cause your stomach to make more acid, which can irritate your stomach. And acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may cause serious liver damage if taken with too much alcohol.
Condition name:Hay fever
Overview of Hay fever:
Hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis, causes cold-like symptoms. These may include a runny nose, itchy eyes, congestion, sneezing and sinus pressure. But unlike a cold, hay fever isn't caused by a virus. Hay fever is caused by an allergic response to a harmless outdoor or indoor substance the body identifies as harmful (allergen).
Common allergens that can trigger hay fever symptoms include pollen and dust mites. Tiny flecks of skin shed by cats, dogs, and other animals with fur or feathers (pet dander) also can be allergens.
Besides making you miserable, hay fever can affect how well you perform at work or school and can generally interfere with your life. But you don't have to put up with annoying symptoms. You can learn to avoid triggers and find the right treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Hay fever in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hay fever :
Hay fever symptoms can include:
Runny nose and nasal stuffiness, called congestion.
Watery, itchy, red eyes.
Sneezing.
Cough.
Itchy nose, roof of mouth or throat.
Mucus that runs down the back of the throat, called postnasal drip.
Swollen, bruised-appearing skin under the eyes, known as allergic shiners.
Extreme tiredness and fatigue, often due to poor sleep.
Causes for Hay fever :
When someone has hay fever, the immune system identifies a harmless airborne substance as being harmful. This substance is called an allergen. The body produces immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies to protect against allergens. When the body comes in contact with an allergen, these antibodies signal the immune system to release chemicals such as histamine into the bloodstream. This causes a reaction that leads to the symptoms of hay fever.
Risk Factors for Hay fever:
The following can increase a person's risk of developing hay fever:
Having other allergies or asthma.
Having a condition called atopic dermatitis or eczema, which makes skin irritated and itchy.
Having a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with allergies or asthma.
Living or working in an environment that constantly exposes someone to allergens — such as animal dander or dust mites.
Being exposed to smoke and strong odors that irritate the lining of the nose.
Having a mother who smoked during the first year of life.
Complications for Hay fever:
Problems that may go along with hay fever include:
Reduced quality of life. Hay fever can interfere with enjoyment of activities and cause you to be less productive. For many people, hay fever symptoms lead to missing work or school.
Poor sleep. Hay fever symptoms can keep you awake or make it hard to stay asleep. This can lead to fatigue and a general feeling of being unwell, called malaise.
Worsening asthma. Hay fever can worsen symptoms of asthma, such as coughing and wheezing.
Sinusitis. Prolonged sinus congestion due to hay fever may increase your risk of getting sinusitis — an infection or inflammation of the membrane that lines the sinuses.
Ear infection. In children, hay fever often is a factor in middle ear infection, called otitis media.
Preventions for Hay fever
There's no way to avoid getting hay fever. If you have hay fever, the best thing to do is to lessen your exposure to the allergens that cause your symptoms. Take allergy medicines before you're exposed to allergens, as directed by your healthcare professional.
Condition name:Head and neck cancers
Overview of Head and neck cancers:
Head and neck cancers are cancers that start in the head and neck area. There are many kinds of cancer that can happen in the head and neck. Each kind begins as a growth of cells that can invade and destroy healthy body tissue.
Head and neck cancer often refers to cancers that start in the mouth, throat, sinuses and salivary glands. But other cancers can happen in the head and neck and are sometimes considered part of this category too.
Head and neck cancer isn't a diagnosis. Instead, it's a category of cancers that have some things in common. For example, many head and neck cancers share some risk factors and treatments. Most head and neck cancers begin in squamous cells. These thin, flat cells make up the outer layer of the skin. They also line the inside of the nose, mouth and throat. Cancers that begin in the squamous cells are called squamous cell carcinomas. Cancers can begin in other kinds of cells in the head and neck area, though these are less common.
Which treatment you'll have for your head and neck cancer depends on many factors. These might include the location of the cancer, its size and the type of cells involved. Your healthcare team also considers your overall health. Treatment options might include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy and others.
There are no home remedies available for Head and neck cancers in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Head and neck cancers :
Head and neck cancer symptoms may include a sore in the mouth and pain when swallowing. Symptoms might depend on where the cancer starts. Head and neck cancers include cancers that start in the mouth, throat, sinuses and salivary glands.
Symptoms in the mouth and throat:
A lump in the neck that you might be able to feel through the skin. Typically the lump isn't painful.
A sore in the mouth that won't heal.
Coughing up blood.
Hoarse voice.
Loose teeth.
Pain when swallowing.
Symptoms in the nose:
Nosebleeds.
Stuffy or blocked nose that doesn't go away.
Other symptoms:
A sore on the skin of the face, neck or lips that doesn't heal.
Ear pain.
Losing weight without trying.
Causes for Head and neck cancers :
Experts aren't certain exactly what causes head and neck cancers. What causes a cancer may depend on where the cancer starts. Head and neck cancers include cancers that start in the mouth, throat, sinuses and salivary glands.
In general, head and neck cancer starts when a cell in the head and neck area develops changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Head and neck cancers:
Head and neck cancers have some risk factors in common. These include using tobacco and drinking alcohol. Other risk factors depend on the location of the cancer. Head and neck cancers include cancers that start in the mouth, throat, sinuses and salivary glands.
In general, things that increase the risk of head and neck cancers include:
Using tobacco. Using tobacco of any kind increases the risk of many types of head and neck cancer. Examples of kinds of tobacco include cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff.
Drinking alcohol. Frequent and heavy drinking increases the risk of many types of head and neck cancer.
Being exposed to human papillomavirus, also called HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, it causes no problems and goes away on its own. For others, it can cause changes in cells that can lead to many types of cancer. Many throat cancers are thought to be caused by HPV.
Breathing chemicals in the air. Exposure to chemicals in the air can increase the risk of cancer in the nose and sinuses. Chemicals at home and at work can increase the risk.
Being exposed to the sun or tanning lamps. Ultraviolet light from the sun increases the risk of skin cancer of the head and neck. Ultraviolet light also can come from the lights used in tanning beds.
There are no Complications available for Head and neck cancers in the knowledge basePreventions for Head and neck cancers
To help prevent head and neck cancers, don't smoke and limit the amount of alcohol you drink. Other steps you can take may depend on the specific type of cancer. Head and neck cancers include cancers that start in the mouth, throat, sinuses and salivary glands.
To lower the risk of head and neck cancer:
Condition name:Hearing loss
Overview of Hearing loss:
Hearing loss that comes on little by little as you age, also known as presbycusis, is common. More than half the people in the United States older than age 75 have some age-related hearing loss.
There are three types of hearing loss:
Conductive, which involves the outer or middle ear.
Sensorineural, which involves the inner ear.
Mixed, which is a mix of the two.
Aging and being around loud noises both can cause hearing loss. Other factors, such as too much earwax, can lower how well ears work for a time.
You usually can't get hearing back. But there are ways to improve what you hear.
There are no home remedies available for Hearing loss in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hearing loss :
Symptoms of hearing loss may include:
Muffling of speech and other sounds.
Trouble understanding words, especially when in a crowd or a noisy place.
Trouble hearing the letters of the alphabet that aren't vowels.
Often asking others to speak more slowly, clearly and loudly.
Needing to turn up the volume of the television or radio.
Staying clear of some social settings.
Being bothered by background noise.
Ringing in the ears, known as tinnitus.
Causes for Hearing loss :
To understand how hearing loss happens, it can be helpful to understand how hearing works.
Risk Factors for Hearing loss:
Factors that damage or lead to loss of the hairs and nerve cells in the inner ear include:
Aging. The inner ear breaks down over time.
Loud noise. Being around loud sounds can damage the cells of the inner ear. Damage can happen by being around loud noises over time. Or the damage can come from a short blast of noise, such as from a gunshot.
Heredity. Your genes may make you more likely to have ear damage from sound or from aging.
Noises on the job. Jobs where loud noise is constant, such as farming, construction or factory work, can lead to damage inside the ear.
Noises at play. Exposure to explosive noises, such as from firearms and jet engines, can cause immediate, permanent hearing loss. Other activities with dangerously high noise levels include snowmobiling, motorcycling, carpentry or listening to loud music.
Some medicines. These include the antibiotic gentamicin, sildenafil (Viagra) and certain medicines used to treat cancer, which can damage the inner ear. Very high doses of aspirin, other pain relievers, antimalarial drugs or loop diuretics can cause short-term effects on hearing. These include ringing in the ears, also known as tinnitus, or hearing loss.
Some illnesses. Illnesses such as meningitis that cause high fever can harm the cochlea.
Complications for Hearing loss:
Hearing loss can make life less pleasant. Older adults with hearing loss often report being depressed. Because hearing loss can make it harder to talk with others, some people with hearing loss feel cut off from others. Hearing loss is also linked to loss of thinking skills, known as cognitive impairment.
Hearing loss also is linked to risk of falling.
There are no preventive measures available for Hearing loss in the knowledge baseCondition name:Heart arrhythmia
Overview of Heart arrhythmia:
A heart arrhythmia (uh-RITH-me-uh) is an irregular heartbeat. A heart arrhythmia occurs when the electrical signals that tell the heart to beat don't work properly. The heart may beat too fast or too slow. Or the pattern of the heartbeat may be inconsistent.
A heart arrhythmia may feel like a fluttering, pounding or racing heartbeat. Some heart arrhythmias are harmless. Others may cause life-threatening symptoms.
There are times when it is OK to have a fast or slow heartbeat. For example, the heart may beat faster with exercise or slow down during sleep.
Heart arrhythmia treatment may include medicines, devices such as pacemakers, or a procedure or surgery. The goals of treatment are to control or get rid of fast, slow or otherwise irregular heartbeats. A heart-healthy lifestyle can help prevent heart damage that can trigger some heart arrhythmias.
There are no home remedies available for Heart arrhythmia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heart arrhythmia :
A heart arrhythmia may not cause any symptoms. The irregular heartbeat may be noticed during a health checkup for another reason.
Symptoms of an arrhythmia may include:
A fluttering, pounding or racing feeling in the chest.
A fast heartbeat.
A slow heartbeat.
Chest pain.
Shortness of breath.
Other symptoms may include:
Anxiety.
Feeling very tired.
Lightheadedness or dizziness.
Sweating.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Causes for Heart arrhythmia :
To understand the cause of heart arrhythmias, it may help to know how the heart works.
Risk Factors for Heart arrhythmia:
Things that may increase the risk of heart arrhythmias include:
Coronary artery disease, other heart problems and previous heart surgery. Narrowed heart arteries, a heart attack, heart valve disease, prior heart surgery, heart failure, cardiomyopathy and other heart damage are risk factors for almost any kind of arrhythmia.
High blood pressure. This condition increases the risk of developing coronary artery disease. It also may cause the walls of the left lower heart chamber to become stiff and thick, which can change how electrical signals travel through the heart.
Heart problems present at birth. Also called congenital heart defects, some of these problems may affect the heart rate and rhythm.
Thyroid disease. Having an overactive or underactive thyroid gland can raise the risk of irregular heartbeats.
Obstructive sleep apnea. This condition causes pauses in breathing during sleep. It can lead to a slow heartbeat and irregular heartbeats, including atrial fibrillation.
Electrolyte imbalance. Substances in the blood called electrolytes help trigger and send electrical signals in the heart. Potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium are examples of electrolytes. If the body's electrolytes are too low or too high, it may interfere with heart signaling and lead to irregular heartbeats.
Some medicines and supplements. Some prescription medicines and certain cough and cold treatments can cause arrhythmias.
Excessive alcohol use. Drinking too much alcohol can affect electrical signaling in the heart. This can increase the chance of developing atrial fibrillation.
Caffeine, nicotine or illegal drug use. Stimulants can cause the heart to beat faster and may lead to the development of more-serious arrhythmias. Illegal drugs, such as amphetamines and cocaine, may greatly affect the heart. Some may cause sudden death due to ventricular fibrillation.
Complications for Heart arrhythmia:
Complications depend on the type of heart arrhythmia. Possible complications of heart arrhythmias include:
Blood clots, which can lead to stroke.
Heart failure.
Sudden cardiac death.
Blood-thinning medicines can lower the risk of stroke related to atrial fibrillation and other heart arrhythmias. If you have a heart arrhythmia, ask a healthcare professional if you need to take a blood thinner.
If an arrhythmia is causing heart failure symptoms, treatment to control the heart rate may help the heart work better.
Preventions for Heart arrhythmia
Lifestyle changes used to manage heart disease may help prevent heart arrhythmias. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Limit or avoid caffeine and alcohol.
Condition name:Heart disease
Overview of Heart disease:
Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect the heart. Heart disease includes:
Blood vessel disease, such as coronary artery disease.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Heart conditions that you're born with, called congenital heart defects.
Disease of the heart muscle.
Heart valve disease.
Many forms of heart disease can be prevented or treated with healthy lifestyle choices.
There are no home remedies available for Heart disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heart disease :
Heart disease symptoms depend on the type of heart disease.
Causes for Heart disease :
Heart disease causes depend on the specific type of heart disease. There are many different types of heart disease.
Risk Factors for Heart disease:
Risk factors for heart disease include:
Age. Growing older increases the risk of damaged and narrowed arteries and a weakened or thickened heart muscle.
Sex assigned at birth. Men are generally at greater risk of heart disease. The risk in women increases after menopause.
Family history. A family history of heart disease increases the risk of coronary artery disease, especially if a parent developed it at an early age. That means before age 55 for a male relative, such as a brother or your father, and 65 for a female relative, such as your mother or a sister.
Smoking. If you smoke, quit. Substances in tobacco smoke damage the arteries. Heart attacks are more common in people who smoke than in people who don't smoke. Talk with a healthcare professional if you need help quitting.
Unhealthy diet. Diets high in fat, salt, sugar and cholesterol have been linked to heart disease.
High blood pressure. High blood pressure that's not controlled can cause the arteries to become hard and thick. These changes alter blood flow to the heart and body.
High cholesterol. Having high cholesterol increases the risk of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis has been linked to heart attack and stroke.
Diabetes. Diabetes increases the risk of heart disease. Obesity and high blood pressure increase the risk of diabetes and heart disease.
Obesity. Excess weight typically worsens other heart disease risk factors.
Lack of exercise. Being inactive is associated with many forms of heart disease and some of its risk factors too.
Stress. Emotional stress may damage the arteries and make other heart disease risk factors worse.
Poor dental health. Having unhealthy teeth and gums makes it easier for germs to get into the bloodstream and travel to the heart. This can cause an infection called endocarditis. Brush and floss your teeth often. Also get regular dental checkups.
Complications for Heart disease:
Possible complications of heart disease are:
Heart failure. This is one of the most common complications of heart disease. The heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
Heart attack. A heart attack can happen if a piece of plaque in an artery or a blood clot moves to the heart.
Stroke. The risk factors that lead to heart disease also can lead to an ischemic stroke. This type of stroke happens when the arteries to the brain are narrowed or blocked. Too little blood reaches the brain.
Aneurysm. An aneurysm is a bulge in the wall of an artery. If an aneurysm bursts, you may have life-threatening internal bleeding.
Peripheral artery disease. In this condition, the arms or legs — usually the legs — don't get enough blood. This causes symptoms, most notably leg pain when walking, called claudication. Atherosclerosis can lead to peripheral artery disease.
Sudden cardiac arrest. Sudden cardiac arrest is the sudden loss of heart activity, breathing and consciousness. It's usually due to a problem with the heart's electrical system. Sudden cardiac arrest is a medical emergency. If not treated immediately, it results in sudden cardiac death.
Preventions for Heart disease
The same lifestyle changes used to manage heart disease also may help prevent it. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Condition name:Heart failure
Overview of Heart failure:
Heart failure occurs when the heart muscle doesn't pump blood as well as it should. When this happens, blood often backs up and fluid can build up in the lungs, causing shortness of breath.
Certain heart conditions gradually leave the heart too weak or stiff to fill and pump blood properly. These conditions include narrowed arteries in the heart and high blood pressure.
Proper treatment may improve the symptoms of heart failure and may help some people live longer. Lifestyle changes can improve quality of life. Try to lose weight, exercise, use less salt and manage stress.
But heart failure can be life-threatening. People with heart failure may have severe symptoms. Some may need a heart transplant or a device to help the heart pump blood.
Heart failure is sometimes called congestive heart failure.
There are no home remedies available for Heart failure in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heart failure :
If you have heart failure, your heart can't supply enough blood to meet your body's needs.
Symptoms may develop slowly. Sometimes, heart failure symptoms start suddenly. Heart failure symptoms may include:
Shortness of breath with activity or when lying down.
Fatigue and weakness.
Swelling in the legs, ankles and feet.
Rapid or irregular heartbeat.
Reduced ability to exercise.
Wheezing.
A cough that doesn't go away or a cough that brings up white or pink mucus with spots of blood.
Swelling of the belly area.
Very rapid weight gain from fluid buildup.
Nausea and lack of appetite.
Difficulty concentrating or decreased alertness.
Chest pain if heart failure is caused by a heart attack.
Causes for Heart failure :
Heart failure can be caused by a weakened, damaged or stiff heart.
If the heart is damaged or weakened, the heart chambers may stretch and get bigger. The heart can't pump out the needed amount of blood.
If the main pumping chambers of the heart, called the ventricles, are stiff, they can't fill with enough blood between beats.
The heart muscle can be damaged by certain infections, heavy alcohol use, illegal drug use and some chemotherapy medicines. Your genes also can play a role.
Any of the following conditions also can damage or weaken the heart and cause heart failure.
Coronary artery disease and heart attack. Coronary artery disease is the most common cause of heart failure. The disease results from the buildup of fatty deposits in the arteries. The deposits narrow the arteries. This reduces blood flow and can lead to heart attack.
A heart attack occurs suddenly when an artery feeding the heart becomes completely blocked. Damage to the heart muscle from a heart attack may mean that the heart can no longer pump as well as it should.
High blood pressure. Also called hypertension, this condition forces the heart to work harder than it should to pump blood through the body. Over time, the extra work can make the heart muscle too stiff or too weak to properly pump blood.
Heart valve disease. The valves of the heart keep blood flowing the right way. If a valve isn't working properly, the heart must work harder to pump blood. This can weaken the heart over time. Treating some types of heart valve problems may reverse heart failure.
Inflammation of the heart muscle, also called myocarditis. Myocarditis is most commonly caused by a virus, including the COVID-19 virus, and can lead to left-sided heart failure.
A heart problem that you're born with, also called a congenital heart defect. If the heart and its chambers or valves haven't formed correctly, the other parts of the heart have to work harder to pump blood. This may lead to heart failure.
Irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias. Irregular heart rhythms may cause the heart to beat too fast, creating extra work for the heart. A slow heartbeat also may lead to heart failure. Treating an irregular heart rhythm may reverse heart failure in some people.
Other diseases. Some long-term diseases may contribute to chronic heart failure. Examples are diabetes, HIV infection, an overactive or underactive thyroid, or a buildup of iron or protein.
Causes of sudden heart failure also include:
Allergic reactions.
Any illness that affects the whole body.
Blood clots in the lungs.
Severe infections.
Use of certain medicines.
Viruses that attack the heart muscle.
Heart failure usually begins with the lower left heart chamber, called the left ventricle. This is the heart's main pumping chamber. But heart failure also can affect the right side. The lower right heart chamber is called the right ventricle. Sometimes heart failure affects both sides of the heart.
Risk Factors for Heart failure:
Diseases and conditions that increase the risk of heart failure include:
Coronary artery disease. Narrowed arteries may limit the heart's supply of oxygen-rich blood, resulting in weakened heart muscle.
Heart attack. A heart attack is a form of coronary artery disease that occurs suddenly. Damage to the heart muscle from a heart attack may mean the heart can no longer pump as well as it should.
Heart valve disease. Having a heart valve that doesn't work properly raises the risk of heart failure.
High blood pressure. The heart works harder than it has to when blood pressure is high.
Irregular heartbeats. Irregular heartbeats, especially if they are very frequent and fast, can weaken the heart muscle and cause heart failure.
Congenital heart disease. Some people who develop heart failure were born with problems that affect the structure or function of their heart.
Diabetes. Having diabetes increases the risk of high blood pressure and coronary artery disease.
Sleep apnea. This inability to breathe properly during sleep results in low blood-oxygen levels and an increased risk of irregular heartbeats. Both of these problems can weaken the heart.
Obesity. People who have obesity have a higher risk of developing heart failure.
Viral infections. Some viral infections can damage to the heart muscle.
Medicines that may increase the risk of heart failure include:
Some diabetes medicines. The diabetes drugs rosiglitazone (Avandia) and pioglitazone (Actos) have been found to increase the risk of heart failure in some people. Don't stop taking these medicines without first talking to your health care provider.
Some other medicines. Other medicines that may lead to heart failure or heart problems include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and some medicines used to treat high blood pressure, cancer, blood conditions, irregular heartbeats, nervous system diseases, mental health conditions, lung and urinary problems, and infections.
Other risk factors for heart failure include:
Aging. The heart's ability to work decreases with age, even in healthy people.
Alcohol use. Drinking too much alcohol may weaken the heart muscle and lead to heart failure.
Smoking or using tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Using tobacco increases the risk of heart disease and heart failure.
Complications for Heart failure:
If you have health failure, it's important to have regular health checkups, even if symptoms improve. Your health care provider can examine you and run tests to check for complications.
Complications of heart failure depend on your age, overall health and the severity of heart disease. They may include:
Kidney damage or failure. Heart failure can reduce the blood flow to the kidneys. Untreated, this can cause kidney failure. Kidney damage from heart failure can require dialysis for treatment.
Other heart problems. Heart failure can cause changes in the heart's size and function. These changes may damage heart valves and cause irregular heartbeats.
Liver damage. Heart failure can cause fluid buildup that puts too much pressure on the liver. This fluid backup can lead to scarring, which makes it more difficult for the liver to work properly.
Sudden cardiac death. If the heart is weak, there is a risk of dying suddenly due to a dangerous irregular heart rhythm.
Preventions for Heart failure
One way to prevent heart failure is to treat and control the conditions that can cause it. These conditions include coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and obesity.
Some of the same lifestyle changes used to manage heart failure also may help prevent it. Try these heart-healthy tips:
Don't smoke.
Get plenty of exercise.
Eat healthy foods.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Take medicines as directed.
Condition name:Heart valve disease
Overview of Heart valve disease:
In heart valve disease, one or more of the valves in the heart doesn't work properly. There are four heart valves. They keep blood flowing through the heart in the correct direction. Sometimes a valve doesn't open or close all the way. This can change how blood flows through the heart to the rest of the body.
Heart valve disease treatment depends on the heart valve affected and the type and severity of the disease. Sometimes surgery is needed to repair or replace the heart valve.
There are no home remedies available for Heart valve disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heart valve disease :
Some people with heart valve disease might not have symptoms for many years. When symptoms occur, they might include:
Shortness of breath at rest or when active or lying down.
Fatigue.
Chest pain.
Dizziness.
Swelling of the ankles and feet.
Fainting.
Irregular heartbeat.
Causes for Heart valve disease :
To understand the causes of heart valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
Four valves in the heart keep blood flowing in the right direction. These valves are:
Aortic valve.
Mitral valve.
Pulmonary valve.
Tricuspid valve.
Each valve has flaps, called leaflets or cusps. The flaps open and close once during each heartbeat. If a valve flap doesn't open or close properly, less blood moves out of the heart to the rest of the body.
Types of heart valve disease include:
Stenosis. The valve flaps become thick or stiff and sometimes can join together. The valve opening becomes narrowed. Less blood can flow through the narrowed valve.
Regurgitation. The valve flaps may not close tightly, causing blood to leak backward.
Prolapse. The valve flaps become stretched out and floppy. They bulge backward like a parachute. This condition can lead to regurgitation.
Atresia. The valve isn't formed. A solid sheet of tissue blocks the blood flow between the heart chambers. This type usually affects the pulmonary valve.
Some people are born with heart valve disease. This is called congenital heart valve disease. But adults can get heart valve disease too. Causes of heart valve disease in adults may include infections, age-related changes and other heart conditions.
Risk Factors for Heart valve disease:
Several things can increase the risk of heart valve disease, including:
Older age.
Some infections, such as rheumatic fever or blood infections.
A heart attack or some types of heart disease.
High blood pressure, high cholesterol, diabetes and other heart disease risk factors.
Complications for Heart valve disease:
Heart valve disease can cause many complications, including:
Heart failure
Stroke
Blood clots
Heart rhythm abnormalities
Death
There are no preventive measures available for Heart valve disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Heat exhaustion
Overview of Heat exhaustion:
Heat exhaustion is a condition that happens when your body overheats. Symptoms may include heavy sweating and a rapid pulse. Heat exhaustion is one of three heat-related illnesses, with heat cramps being the mildest and heatstroke being the most serious.
Causes of heat illness include exposure to high temperatures, particularly when there is also high humidity, and strenuous physical activity. Without prompt treatment, heat exhaustion can lead to heatstroke, a life-threatening condition. Fortunately, heat exhaustion is preventable.
There are no home remedies available for Heat exhaustion in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heat exhaustion :
Symptoms of heat exhaustion may start suddenly or progress over time, especially with prolonged periods of exercise. Possible heat exhaustion symptoms include:
Cool, moist skin with goose bumps when in the heat.
Heavy sweating.
Faintness.
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Weak, rapid pulse.
Low blood pressure upon standing.
Muscle cramps.
Nausea.
Headache.
Causes for Heat exhaustion :
The body's heat combined with environmental heat results in what's called your core temperature. This is your body's inner temperature. Your body needs to regulate heat gain in hot weather or heat loss in cold weather to keep a core temperature that's typical for you. The average core temperature is about 98.6 F (37 C).
Risk Factors for Heat exhaustion:
Anyone can get heat illness, but certain factors increase your sensitivity to heat. They include:
Young age or old age. Infants and children younger than 4 and adults older than 65 are at higher risk of heat exhaustion. The body's ability to regulate its temperature isn't fully developed in children. In older adults, illness, medicines or other factors can affect the body's ability to control temperature.
Certain drugs. Some medicines can affect your body's ability to stay hydrated and respond properly to heat. These include some medicines used to treat high blood pressure and heart problems (beta blockers, diuretics), reduce allergy symptoms (antihistamines), calm you (tranquilizers), or reduce psychiatric symptoms such as delusions (antipsychotics). Some illegal drugs, such as cocaine and amphetamines, can increase your core temperature.
Obesity. Carrying excess weight can affect your body's ability to regulate its temperature and cause your body to keep more heat.
Sudden temperature changes. If you're not used to the heat, you're more susceptible to heat-related illnesses, such as heat exhaustion. The body needs time to get used to higher temperatures. Traveling to a warm climate from a cold one or living in an area that experiences an early heat wave can put you at risk of a heat-related illness. The body hasn't had a chance to get used to the higher temperatures.
A high heat index. The heat index is a single temperature value that considers how both the outdoor temperature and humidity make you feel. When the humidity is high, your sweat can't evaporate as easily, and your body has more trouble cooling itself. This makes you more prone to heat exhaustion and heatstroke. When the heat index is 91 F (33 C) or higher, you should take precautions to keep cool.
Complications for Heat exhaustion:
If heat exhaustion isn't treated, it can lead to heatstroke. Heatstroke is a life-threatening condition. It happens when your core body temperature reaches 104 F (40 C) or higher. Heatstroke needs immediate medical attention to prevent permanent damage to your brain and other vital organs that can result in death.
Preventions for Heat exhaustion
There are a lot of things you can do to prevent heat exhaustion and other heat-related illnesses. When temperatures climb, remember to:
Wear loose fitting, lightweight clothing. Wearing too much clothing or clothing that fits tightly won't allow your body to cool properly.
Protect against sunburn. Sunburn affects your body's ability to cool itself. Protect yourself outdoors with a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15. Apply sunscreen generously and reapply every two hours. Reapply more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Drink plenty of fluids. Staying hydrated helps your body sweat and keep a normal body temperature.
Be careful with certain medicines. Watch for heat-related problems if you take medicines that can affect your body's ability to stay hydrated and respond to heat.
Never leave anyone in a parked car. This is a common cause of heat-related deaths in children. When parked in the sun, the temperature in your car can rise 20 degrees Fahrenheit (more than 11 C) in 10 minutes.
It's not safe to leave someone in a parked car in warm or hot weather, even if the windows are cracked or the car is in shade. Keep parked cars locked to prevent a child from getting inside.
Take it easy during the hottest parts of the day. If you can't avoid strenuous activity in hot weather, drink fluids and rest often in a cool spot. Try to schedule exercise or physical labor for cooler parts of the day, such as early morning or evening.
Get acclimated. Limit time spent working or exercising in heat until you're conditioned to it. People who aren't used to hot weather are especially susceptible to heat-related illness. It can take several weeks for your body to adjust to hot weather.
Be cautious if you're at increased risk. If you take medicines or have a condition that increases your risk of heat-related problems, such as a history of prior heat illness, be cautious. Avoid the heat and act quickly if you notice symptoms of overheating. If you take part in a strenuous sporting event or activity in hot weather, make sure there are medical services ready in case of a heat emergency.
Condition name:Heatstroke
Overview of Heatstroke:
Heatstroke is a condition caused by the body overheating. This usually happens because of exposure to high temperatures or physical activity in high temperatures for too long. There are a few stages of heat injury, and heatstroke is the most serious. It can happen if body temperature rises to 104 F (40 C) or higher. Heatstroke is most common in the summer months.
Heatstroke needs emergency care. If it's not treated, heatstroke can quickly damage the brain, heart, kidneys and muscles. This damage gets worse the longer treatment is delayed, which increases the risk of serious complications or death.
There are no home remedies available for Heatstroke in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heatstroke :
Heatstroke symptoms include:
High body temperature. A core body temperature of 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) or higher is the main sign of heatstroke.
Change in mental state or behavior. Confusion, agitation, slurred speech, irritability, delirium, seizures and coma can all result from heatstroke.
Change in sweating pattern. In heatstroke brought on by hot weather, skin feels hot and dry to the touch. However, in heatstroke brought on by strenuous exercise, sweating may be profuse.
Nausea and vomiting. Someone with heatstroke may feel sick to their stomach or vomit.
Flushed skin. Skin may turn red as body temperature increases.
Rapid breathing. Breathing may become rapid and shallow.
Racing heart rate. Pulse may significantly increase because heat stress places an extreme burden on the heart to help cool the body.
Headache. Heatstroke may cause the head to throb.
Causes for Heatstroke :
Heatstroke can happen as a result of:
Being in a hot environment. In a type of heatstroke, called nonexertional (classic) heatstroke, being in a hot environment leads to a rise in core body temperature. This type of heatstroke typically happens after exposure to hot, humid weather, especially for a long period of time. It happens most often in older adults and in people with ongoing health conditions.
Doing strenuous activity. Exertional heatstroke is caused by an increase in core body temperature brought on by intense physical activity in hot weather. Anyone exercising or working in hot weather can get exertional heatstroke, but it's most likely to happen if you're not used to high temperatures.
In either type of heatstroke, your condition can be brought on by:
Wearing heavy clothing that prevents sweat from evaporating easily and cooling the body.
Drinking alcohol, which can affect the body's ability to regulate temperature.
Becoming dehydrated by not drinking enough water to replenish fluids lost through sweating.
Risk Factors for Heatstroke:
Anyone can develop heatstroke, but several factors increase your risk:
Age. The ability to cope with extreme heat depends on the strength of the central nervous system. In the very young, the central nervous system is not fully developed. In adults over 65, the central nervous system becomes less responsive, which makes the body less able to cope with changes in body temperature. Both age groups usually have difficulty remaining hydrated, which also increases risk.
Exertion in hot weather. Military training and participating in sports, such as football or long-distance running events, in hot weather are among the situations that can lead to heatstroke.
Sudden exposure to hot weather. People may be more susceptible to heat-related illness when they're exposed to a sudden increase in temperature, such as during an early-summer heat wave or travel to a hotter climate.
Limit activity for at least several days to allow time to acclimate to the temperature change. However, there may still be an increased risk of heatstroke until a person experiences several weeks of higher temperatures.
A lack of air conditioning. Fans may make you feel better, but during sustained hot weather, air conditioning is the most effective way to cool down and lower humidity.
Certain medicines. Some medicines affect your body's ability to stay hydrated and respond to heat. Be especially careful in hot weather if you take medicines that narrow your blood vessels (vasoconstrictors), regulate your blood pressure by blocking adrenaline (beta blockers), rid your body of sodium and water (diuretics), or reduce psychiatric symptoms (antidepressants or antipsychotics).
Stimulants for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and illegal stimulants such as amphetamines and cocaine also make you more vulnerable to heatstroke.
Certain health conditions. Certain chronic illnesses, such as heart or lung disease, might increase your risk of heatstroke. So can being overweight, being inactive and having a history of previous heatstroke.
Complications for Heatstroke:
Heatstroke can result in a number of complications, depending on how long the body temperature is high. Serious complications include:
Vital organ damage. Without a quick response to lower the body temperature, heatstroke can cause the brain or other vital organs to swell, possibly resulting in permanent damage.
Death. Without prompt and adequate treatment, heatstroke can be fatal.
Preventions for Heatstroke
Heatstroke is predictable and preventable. Take these steps to prevent heatstroke during hot weather:
Wear loose-fitting, lightweight clothing. Excess clothing or clothing that fits tightly doesn't allow your body to cool properly. Clothes made of linen, silk, cotton or hemp are cooling.
Protect against sunburn. Sunburn affects your body's ability to cool itself, so protect yourself outdoors with a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses. And use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Drink plenty of fluids. Stay hydrated to help your body sweat and maintain a normal body temperature.
Take extra precautions with certain medicines. Be on the lookout for heat-related problems if you take medicines that can affect your body's ability to stay hydrated and dissipate heat.
Never leave anyone in a parked car. This is a common cause of heat-related deaths in children. When a car is parked in the sun, the temperature in the car can rise 20 degrees Fahrenheit (more than 11 degrees Celsius) in 10 minutes.
It's not safe to leave a person in a parked car in warm or hot weather, even if the windows are cracked or the car is in shade. When your car is parked, keep it locked to prevent a child from getting inside.
Take it easy during the hottest parts of the day. If you can't avoid strenuous activity in hot weather, drink fluids and rest frequently in a cool spot. Try to schedule exercise or physical labor for cooler parts of the day, such as early morning or evening.
Get acclimated. Limit time spent working or exercising in heat until you're conditioned to it. People who are not used to hot weather are especially susceptible to heat-related illness. It can take several weeks for your body to adjust to hot weather.
Be cautious if you're at increased risk. If you take medicines or have a condition that increases your risk of heat-related problems, avoid the heat and act quickly if you notice symptoms of overheating. If you participate in a strenuous sporting event or activity in hot weather, make sure there are medical services available in case of a heat emergency.
Condition name:Heavy menstrual bleeding
Overview of Heavy menstrual bleeding:
Some women have menstrual bleeding that is heavy or lasts for more than a few days. This condition used to be called menorrhagia. Heavy menstrual bleeding is a common concern. But most women don't have enough blood loss for it to be called heavy menstrual bleeding.
Some women have menstrual bleeding between periods, or earlier or later in their cycles than expected. This type of bleeding is called abnormal uterine bleeding or irregular menstrual bleeding.
With heavy menstrual bleeding, blood flow and cramping make it harder to do your usual activities. If you dread your period because you have heavy menstrual bleeding, talk with your doctor. There are many treatments that can help.
There are no home remedies available for Heavy menstrual bleeding in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Heavy menstrual bleeding :
Symptoms of heavy menstrual bleeding may include:
Soaking through one or more sanitary pads or tampons every hour for several hours in a row.
Needing double sanitary protection to control your menstrual flow.
Getting up at night to change sanitary pads or tampons.
Bleeding for more than a week.
Passing blood clots larger than a quarter.
Limiting daily activities due to heavy menstrual flow.
Feeling tired, fatigued or short of breath as the result of blood loss.
Causes for Heavy menstrual bleeding :
In some cases, the reason for heavy menstrual bleeding is unknown. But a number of conditions may cause heavy menstrual bleeding. They include:
Hormones being out of balance. In a typical menstrual cycle, there's a balance between the hormones estrogen and progesterone. This controls the buildup of the lining of the uterus. The lining of the uterus also is known as the endometrium. This lining is shed during a menstrual period. When hormones are out of balance, the lining becomes too thick and sheds by way of heavy menstrual bleeding or unexpected bleeding between periods.
A number of conditions can cause hormone imbalances. These include obesity, insulin resistance, thyroid problems and polycystic ovary syndrome, which also is called PCOS.
Problems with the ovaries. Sometimes ovaries don't release an egg during a menstrual cycle. This also is known as anovulation. When this happens, the body doesn't make the hormone progesterone the way it usually does during a menstrual cycle. This leads to hormone imbalance and may result in heavy menstrual bleeding or unexpected bleeding between periods.
Uterine fibroids. These tumors develop during childbearing years. They are benign, which means they are not cancerous. Uterine fibroids may cause heavier than normal menstrual bleeding or bleeding that goes on for a long time.
Polyps. These small growths on the lining of the uterus may cause menstrual bleeding that is heavy or lasts for a long time. They may cause bleeding between periods. Polyps also can cause spotting or bleeding after menopause. The growths are not cancerous.
Adenomyosis. In this condition, glands from the lining of the uterus grow into the wall of the uterus itself. This can cause heavy bleeding and painful periods.
Intrauterine device, also called an IUD. Heavy menstrual bleeding is a well-known side effect of using a hormone-free IUD for birth control. Talk to your doctor about other birth control options. IUDs with progestin may ease heavy menstrual bleeding.
Pregnancy complications. A single, heavy, late period may be due to a miscarriage. Another cause of heavy bleeding during pregnancy includes the unusual location of the placenta, which supplies nutrition to the baby and removes waste. The placenta may be too low or covering the opening of the uterus, which is called the cervix. This condition also is known as placenta previa.
Cancer. Cancer of the uterus or cervix can cause abnormal uterine bleeding, unexpected or heavy menstrual bleeding. These cancers can happen before or after menopause. Women who have had an abnormal Pap test in the past are at higher risk of cervical cancer.
Genetic bleeding disorders. Some bleeding disorders that run in families cause heavy menstrual bleeding. These include von Willebrand's disease, a condition in which the blood does not clot properly.
Medicines. Some medicines can result in heavy or lengthy menstrual bleeding. These include hormonal medicines such as birth control pills that have estrogen and progestin. These medicines typically help lessen menstrual bleeding but sometimes cause unexpected bleeding between periods. Medicines that prevent blood clots also may cause heavy menstrual bleeding. They include warfarin (Jantoven), enoxaparin (Lovenox), apixaban (Eliquis) and rivaroxaban (Xarelto).
Other medical conditions. A number of other medical conditions may cause heavy menstrual bleeding. They include liver, kidney and thyroid disease.
Risk Factors for Heavy menstrual bleeding:
Risk factors vary with age and the medical conditions you have. Usually, the release of an egg from the ovaries signals the body to make progesterone. Progesterone is the hormone most responsible for keeping periods regular. If no egg is released, the body does not make enough progesterone. This can result in heavy menstrual bleeding or unexpected bleeding between periods.
In teenagers, an irregular period or heavy menstrual bleeding often happens when an egg is not released during a monthly cycle. Teenagers are most likely to have cycles without an egg release during the first year after they have their first period.
In older women of reproductive age, heavy menstrual bleeding is often caused by problems with the uterus. These include fibroids, polyps and adenomyosis. But other problems also could cause heavy menstrual bleeding. Examples include cancer of the uterus, bleeding disorders, side effects of medicines, and liver or kidney disease.
Complications for Heavy menstrual bleeding:
Menstrual bleeding that is too heavy or lasts too long can lead to other medical conditions. These include:
Anemia. Heavy menstrual bleeding can cause anemia related to blood loss. Anemia is a condition in which the body lacks enough red blood cells to carry oxygen to tissues. The number of red blood cells is measured by hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to tissues throughout the body.
Iron deficiency anemia occurs as the body tries to make up for lost red blood cells. The body uses iron stores to make more hemoglobin so that enough oxygen can be carried to tissues. Heavy menstrual bleeding may make iron levels too low. This may result in iron deficiency anemia.
Symptoms include headaches and feeling tired. Although diet plays a role in iron deficiency anemia, the problem is made worse by heavy menstrual periods.
Severe pain. Along with heavy menstrual bleeding, you might have painful menstrual cramps. This also is known as dysmenorrhea. Talk to your doctor if your cramps make it hard to do your daily activities.
There are no preventive measures available for Heavy menstrual bleeding in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hemangioma
Overview of Hemangioma:
A hemangioma (he-man-jee-O-muh), also known as an infantile hemangioma or hemangioma of infancy, is a bright red birthmark. It looks like a rubbery bump or flat red patch and is made up of extra blood vessels in the skin. The mark shows up at birth or in the first month of life.
A hemangioma typically appears on the face, scalp, chest or back, though it can be anywhere on the skin. Treatment generally isn't needed for a baby's hemangioma, as the mark fades over time. Typically, there is little trace of it by age 10. You may want to think about treatment for the child if a hemangioma leads to problems with vision, breathing or other bodily functions. You also may think about treatment if the hemangioma is in a cosmetically sensitive area.
There are no home remedies available for Hemangioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemangioma :
A hemangioma may be visible at birth, but it appears more often during the first month of life. It starts as a flat red mark on the body, most often on the face, scalp, chest or back. A child generally only has one mark, but some children may have more than one mark.
During your child's first year, the red mark may grow rapidly into a spongy, rubbery-looking bump that sticks out from the skin. The hemangioma then enters a rest phase. Then it will begin to slowly go away.
Many hemangiomas go away by age 5, and most go away by age 10. The skin may be slightly discolored or raised after the hemangioma goes away.
Causes for Hemangioma :
A hemangioma is made up of extra blood vessels that group together into a dense clump. What causes the vessels to clump isn't known.
Risk Factors for Hemangioma:
Hemangiomas occur more often in babies who are female, white or born prematurely. Babies with a low birth weight also are more likely to have a hemangioma.
Complications for Hemangioma:
At times, a hemangioma can break down and develop a sore. This can lead to pain, bleeding, scarring or infection. Depending on the hemangioma's location, it may cause problems with your child's vision, breathing, hearing or ability to go to the bathroom. But this is rare.
There are no preventive measures available for Hemangioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hemifacial spasm
Overview of Hemifacial spasm:
Hemifacial spasm is a nervous system condition in which the muscles on one side of the face twitch. The cause of hemifacial spasm is most often a blood vessel touching or pulsing against a facial nerve. A facial nerve injury or a tumor also can cause it. Sometimes there is no known cause.
There are no home remedies available for Hemifacial spasm in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemifacial spasm :
Common symptoms of hemifacial spasm include jerking of muscles in the face that are most often:
On one side of the face.
Not controllable.
Painless.
These muscle movements, also called contractions, often start in the eyelid. Then they might move on to the cheek and mouth on the same side of the face. At first, hemifacial spasms come and go. But over months to years, they occur almost all the time.
Sometimes, hemifacial spasms occur on both sides of the face. However, the twitching doesn't occur on both sides of the face at the same time.
Causes for Hemifacial spasm :
A blood vessel touching a facial nerve is the most common cause of hemifacial spasm. A facial nerve injury or a tumor also can cause it. Sometimes the cause isn't known.
Hemifacial spasm sometimes starts as a result of:
Moving the muscles in the face.
Anxiety.
Stress.
Being tired.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hemifacial spasm in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hemifacial spasm in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hemifacial spasm in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hemochromatosis
Overview of Hemochromatosis:
Hemochromatosis (he-moe-kroe-muh-TOE-sis) causes your body to absorb too much iron from the food you eat. Excess iron is stored in your organs, especially your liver, heart and pancreas. Too much iron can lead to life-threatening conditions, such as liver disease, heart problems and diabetes.
There are a few types of hemochromatosis, but the most common type is caused by a gene change passed down through families. Only a few people who have the genes ever develop serious problems. Symptoms usually appear in midlife.
Treatment includes regularly removing blood from your body. Because much of the body's iron is contained in red blood cells, this treatment lowers iron levels.
There are no home remedies available for Hemochromatosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemochromatosis :
Some people with hemochromatosis never have symptoms. Early symptoms often overlap with those of other common conditions.
Symptoms may include:
Joint pain.
Abdominal pain.
Fatigue.
Weakness.
Diabetes.
Loss of sex drive.
Impotence.
Heart failure.
Liver failure.
Bronze or gray skin color.
Memory fog.
Causes for Hemochromatosis :
Hemochromatosis is most often caused by a change in a gene. This gene controls the amount of iron your body absorbs from food. The altered gene is passed from parents to children. This type of hemochromatosis is by far the most common type. It's called hereditary hemochromatosis.
Risk Factors for Hemochromatosis:
Factors that increase your risk of hemochromatosis include:
Having two copies of an altered HFE gene. This is the greatest risk factor for hereditary hemochromatosis.
Family history. If you have a parent or sibling with hemochromatosis, you're more likely to develop the disease.
Ethnicity. People of Northern European descent are more prone to hereditary hemochromatosis than are people of other ethnic backgrounds. Hemochromatosis is less common in people of Black, Hispanic and Asian ancestry.
Your sex. Men are more likely than women to develop symptoms of hemochromatosis at an earlier age. Because women lose iron through menstruation and pregnancy, they tend to store less of the mineral than men do. After menopause or a hysterectomy, the risk increases for women.
Complications for Hemochromatosis:
Untreated, hemochromatosis can lead to a number of complications. These complications especially affect your joints and organs where excess iron tends to be stored, such as your liver, pancreas and heart. Complications can include:
Liver problems. Cirrhosis — permanent scarring of the liver — is just one of the problems that may occur. Cirrhosis increases your risk of liver cancer and other life-threatening complications.
Diabetes. Damage to the pancreas can lead to diabetes.
Heart problems. Excess iron in your heart affects the heart's ability to circulate enough blood for your body's needs. This is called congestive heart failure. Hemochromatosis also can cause abnormal heart rhythms, called arrhythmias.
Reproductive problems. Excess iron can lead to erectile dysfunction and loss of sex drive in men. It can cause an absence of the menstrual cycle in women.
Skin color changes. Deposits of iron in skin cells can make your skin appear bronze or gray in color.
There are no preventive measures available for Hemochromatosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)
Overview of Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS):
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a condition that can occur when small blood vessels become damaged and inflamed. This damage can cause clots to form in the vessels all through the body. The clots can damage the kidneys and other organs. Hemolytic uremic syndrome can lead to kidney failure, which can be life-threatening.
Anyone can get hemolytic uremic syndrome. But it's most common in young children. Most often, infection with certain strains of Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria is the cause.
Other infections, certain medicines or conditions such as pregnancy, cancer or autoimmune diseases can cause hemolytic uremic syndrome. It also can be the result of certain gene changes.
Hemolytic uremic syndrome is serious. But treating it in time leads to a full recovery for most people, especially young children.
There are no home remedies available for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) :
The symptoms of hemolytic uremic syndrome vary, depending on the cause. The first symptoms of hemolytic uremic syndrome caused by E. coli bacteria might include:
Diarrhea, which is often bloody.
Pain, cramping or bloating in the stomach area.
Fever.
Vomiting.
All forms of hemolytic uremic syndrome damage blood vessels. This damage causes red blood cells to break down, called anemia. The condition also causes blood clots to form in the blood vessels and, in turn, damage the kidneys.
Symptoms of these changes include:
Loss of color in the skin.
Extreme tiredness.
Easy bruising.
Unusual bleeding, such as bleeding from the nose and mouth.
Decreased urinating or blood in the urine.
Swelling, called edema, of the legs, feet or ankles. Swelling occurs less often in the face, hands, feet or entire body.
Confusion, seizures or stroke.
High blood pressure.
Causes for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) :
The most common cause of hemolytic uremic syndrome is infection with certain strains of E. coli bacteria. This is especially true for children under age 5. Some of the E. coli strains make a toxin called Shiga toxin. These strains are called Shiga toxin-producing E. coli (STEC).
Most of the hundreds of types of E. coli are typical and harmless. But some strains of E. coli can lead to hemolytic uremic syndrome.
Other causes of hemolytic uremic syndrome can include:
Other infections. This can include infection with pneumococcal bacteria, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or a flu virus.
Certain medicines. These can include some of the medicines used to treat cancer and some medicines used to keep people who receive donor organs from rejecting the organs.
Complications of other conditions. Rarely, these conditions can include pregnancy or conditions such as autoimmune disease or cancer.
An uncommon type of hemolytic uremic syndrome, called atypical, can be passed down through families. People who inherit the gene that causes this form of hemolytic uremic syndrome don't always get the condition. But an infection, the use of certain medicines or ongoing health conditions can start hemolytic uremic syndrome in people with the gene.
Risk Factors for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS):
Hemolytic uremic syndrome caused by E.coli can occur if you:
Eat meat, fruit or vegetables with the bacteria.
Swim in pools or lakes that have feces with the bacteria.
Have close contact with an infected person.
The risk of getting hemolytic uremic syndrome is highest for:
Children 5 or younger.
People who have weakened immune systems.
People with certain gene changes.
Complications for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS):
Hemolytic uremic syndrome can cause life-threatening complications, including:
Kidney failure, which can be sudden, called acute, or happen over time, called chronic.
High blood pressure.
Stroke or seizures.
Coma.
Clotting problems, which can lead to bleeding.
Heart problems.
Digestive tract problems, such as problems with the intestines, gallbladder or pancreas.
Preventions for Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS)
Meat or produce that has E. coli won't always look, feel or smell bad. To protect against E. coli infection and other illnesses from foods:
Don't drink milk, juice or cider that isn't processed to make it safe to drink, called pasteurized.
Wash hands well before eating and after using the restroom and changing diapers.
Clean utensils and food surfaces often.
Cook meat to an inside temperature of at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).
Defrost meat in the microwave or refrigerator, not on the counter.
Keep raw foods separate from other foods. Don't put cooked meat on plates that had raw meat on them.
Store meat below produce in the refrigerator to cut the risk of liquids such as blood dripping on produce.
Avoid unclean swimming areas. Don't swim if you have diarrhea.
Condition name:Hemophilia
Overview of Hemophilia:
Hemophilia is a rare disorder in which the blood doesn't clot in the typical way because it doesn't have enough blood-clotting proteins (clotting factors). If you have hemophilia, you might bleed for a longer time after an injury than you would if your blood clotted properly.
Small cuts usually aren't much of a problem. If you have a severe form of the condition, the main concern is bleeding inside your body, especially in your knees, ankles and elbows. Internal bleeding can damage your organs and tissues and be life-threatening.
Hemophilia is almost always a genetic disorder. Treatment includes regular replacement of the specific clotting factor that is reduced. Newer therapies that don't contain clotting factors also are being used.
There are no home remedies available for Hemophilia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemophilia :
Signs and symptoms of hemophilia vary, depending on your level of clotting factors. If your clotting-factor level is mildly reduced, you might bleed only after surgery or trauma. If your deficiency is severe, you can bleed easily for seemingly no reason.
Signs and symptoms of spontaneous bleeding include:
Unexplained and excessive bleeding from cuts or injuries, or after surgery or dental work
Many large or deep bruises
Unusual bleeding after vaccinations
Pain, swelling or tightness in your joints
Blood in your urine or stool
Nosebleeds without a known cause
In infants, unexplained irritability
Causes for Hemophilia :
When a person bleeds, the body typically pools blood cells together to form a clot to stop the bleeding. Clotting factors are proteins in the blood that work with cells known as platelets to form clots. Hemophilia occurs when a clotting factor is missing or levels of the clotting factor are low.
Risk Factors for Hemophilia:
The biggest risk factor for hemophilia is to have family members who also have the disorder. Males are much more likely to have hemophilia than are females.
Complications for Hemophilia:
Complications of hemophilia can include:
Deep internal bleeding. Bleeding that occurs in deep muscle can cause the limbs to swell. The swelling can press on nerves and lead to numbness or pain. Depending on where the bleeding occurs, it could be life-threatening.
Bleeding into the throat or neck. This can affect a person's ability to breathe.
Damage to joints. Internal bleeding can put pressure on the joints, causing severe pain. Left untreated, frequent internal bleeding can cause arthritis or destruction of the joint.
Infection. If the clotting factors used to treat hemophilia come from human blood, there's an increased risk of viral infections such as hepatitis C. Because of donor screening techniques, the risk is low.
Adverse reaction to clotting factor treatment. In some people with severe hemophilia, the immune system has a negative reaction to the clotting factors used to treat bleeding. When this happens, the immune system develops proteins that keep the clotting factors from working, making treatment less effective.
There are no preventive measures available for Hemophilia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hemorrhoids
Overview of Hemorrhoids:
Hemorrhoids (HEM-uh-roids), also called piles, are swollen veins in the anus and lower rectum. Hemorrhoids are similar to varicose veins. Hemorrhoids can develop inside the rectum, called internal hemorrhoids. They also can develop under the skin around the anus, called external hemorrhoids.
There are several options available to treat hemorrhoids. Many people get relief with home treatments and lifestyle changes.
There are no home remedies available for Hemorrhoids in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hemorrhoids :
Symptoms of hemorrhoids usually depend on the type of hemorrhoid.
Causes for Hemorrhoids :
The veins around the anus tend to stretch under pressure and may bulge or swell. Hemorrhoids can develop from increased pressure in the lower rectum due to:
Straining during bowel movements.
Sitting for long periods of time, especially on the toilet.
Having chronic diarrhea or constipation.
Being obese.
Being pregnant.
Having anal intercourse.
Eating a low-fiber diet.
Regularly lifting heavy items.
Risk Factors for Hemorrhoids:
As people age, the risk of hemorrhoids increases. That's because the tissues that support the veins in the rectum and anus can weaken and stretch. This also can happen during pregnancy because the baby's weight puts pressure on the anal region.
Complications for Hemorrhoids:
Complications of hemorrhoids are rare but may include:
Anemia. Rarely, ongoing blood loss from hemorrhoids may cause anemia. Anemia is when there aren't enough healthy red blood cells to carry oxygen to the body's cells.
Strangulated hemorrhoid. When the blood supply to an internal hemorrhoid is cut off, the hemorrhoid is called strangulated. Strangulated hemorrhoids can cause extreme pain.
Blood clot. Sometimes a clot can form in a hemorrhoid. This is called a thrombosed hemorrhoid. Although not dangerous, it can be extremely painful and sometimes needs to be drained.
Preventions for Hemorrhoids
The best way to prevent hemorrhoids is to keep your stools soft so they pass easily. To prevent hemorrhoids and reduce symptoms of hemorrhoids, follow these tips:
Eat high-fiber foods. Eat more fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Doing so softens the stool and increases its bulk. This will help you avoid the straining that can cause hemorrhoids. Add fiber to your diet slowly to avoid problems with gas.
Drink plenty of fluids. Drink 6 to 8 glasses of water and other liquids each day to help keep stools soft. Avoiding alcohol also may help.
Consider fiber supplements. Most people don't get enough fiber in their diets. Studies have shown that nonprescription fiber supplements, such as psyllium (Metamucil, Konsyl, others) or methylcellulose (Citrucel), can lessen symptoms and bleeding from hemorrhoids.
If you use fiber supplements, be sure to drink at least eight glasses of water or other fluids every day. Otherwise, the supplements can cause constipation or make it worse.
Don't strain. Straining and holding your breath when trying to pass stool create greater pressure in the veins in the lower rectum.
Exercise. Stay active to help prevent constipation and reduce pressure on veins. Exercise also can help you lose excess weight that might be causing your hemorrhoids or making them worse.
Avoid long periods of sitting. Sitting too long, especially on the toilet, can increase the pressure on the veins in the anus.
Condition name:Hepatitis A
Overview of Hepatitis A:
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause liver inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function.
You're most likely to get hepatitis A from contaminated food or water or from close contact with a person or object that's infected. Mild cases of hepatitis A don't require treatment. Most people who are infected recover completely with no permanent liver damage.
Practicing good hygiene, including washing hands frequently, can prevent the spread of the virus. The hepatitis A vaccine can protect against hepatitis A.
There are no home remedies available for Hepatitis A in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hepatitis A :
Hepatitis A symptoms typically appear a few weeks after you've had the virus. But not everyone with hepatitis A develops symptoms. If you do, symptoms can include:
Unusual tiredness and weakness
Sudden nausea and vomiting and diarrhea
Abdominal pain or discomfort, especially on the upper right side beneath your lower ribs, which is over your liver
Clay- or gray-colored stool
Loss of appetite
Low-grade fever
Dark urine
Joint pain
Yellowing of the skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)
Intense itching
These symptoms may be relatively mild and go away in a few weeks. Sometimes, however, hepatitis A results in a severe illness that lasts several months.
Causes for Hepatitis A :
Hepatitis A is caused by a virus that infects liver cells and causes inflammation. The inflammation can affect how your liver works and cause other symptoms of hepatitis A.
The virus spreads when infected stool, even just tiny amounts, enters the mouth of another person (fecal-oral transmission). You may get hepatitis A when you eat or drink something contaminated with infected stool. You may also get the infection through close contact with a person who has hepatitis A. The virus can live on surfaces for a few months. The virus does not spread through casual contact or by sneezing or coughing.
Here are some of the specific ways the hepatitis A virus can spread:
Eating food handled by someone with the virus who doesn't thoroughly wash hands after using the toilet
Drinking contaminated water
Eating food washed in contaminated water
Eating raw shellfish from water polluted with sewage
Being in close contact with a person who has the virus — even if that person has no symptoms
Having sexual contact with someone who has the virus
Risk Factors for Hepatitis A:
You're at increased risk of hepatitis A if you:
Travel or work in areas of the world where hepatitis A is common
Live with another person who has hepatitis A
Are a man who has sexual contact with other men
Have any type of sexual contact with someone who has hepatitis A
Are HIV positive
Are homeless
Use any type of recreational drugs, not just those that are injected
Complications for Hepatitis A:
Unlike other types of viral hepatitis, hepatitis A does not cause long-term liver damage, and it doesn't become an ongoing (chronic) infection.
In rare cases, hepatitis A can cause a sudden (acute) loss of liver function, especially in older adults or people with chronic liver diseases. Acute liver failure requires a stay in the hospital for monitoring and treatment. Some people with acute liver failure may need a liver transplant.
Preventions for Hepatitis A
The hepatitis A vaccine can prevent infection with the virus. The vaccine is typically given in two shots. The first shot is followed by a booster shot six months later. The hepatitis A vaccine can be given in a combination that includes the hepatitis B vaccine. This vaccine combination is given in three shots over six months.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends the hepatitis A vaccine for the following people:
All children at age 1 year, or older children who didn't receive the childhood vaccine
Anyone age 1 year or older who is homeless
Infants ages 6 to 11 months traveling to parts of the world where hepatitis A is common
Family and caregivers of adoptees from countries where hepatitis A is common
People in direct contact with others who have hepatitis A
Laboratory workers who may come into contact with hepatitis A
Men who have sex with men
People who work or travel in parts of the world where hepatitis A is common
People who use any type of recreational drugs, not just injected ones
People with chronic liver disease, including hepatitis B or hepatitis C
Anyone wishing to obtain protection (immunity)
If you're concerned about your risk of hepatitis A, ask your health care provider if you should be vaccinated.
Condition name:Hepatitis B
Overview of Hepatitis B:
Hepatitis B is a serious liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). For most people, hepatitis B is short term, also called acute. Acute hepatitis B lasts less than six months. But for others, the infection lasts more than six months and is called chronic. Chronic hepatitis B raises the risk of liver failure, liver cancer and serious scarring of the liver called cirrhosis.
Most adults with hepatitis B recover fully, even if their symptoms are bad. Infants and children are more likely to develop a chronic, long-lasting hepatitis B virus infection.
A vaccine can prevent infection with the hepatitis B virus. For those who get infected, treatment depends on whether the infection is acute or chronic. Some people need medicine. Others with serious liver damage from a chronic infection need a liver transplant. If you're infected, taking certain safety measures can help prevent spreading the virus to others.
There are no home remedies available for Hepatitis B in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hepatitis B :
Symptoms of acute hepatitis B range from mild to serious. The symptoms usually start about 1 to 4 months after you've been infected with HBV. But you could notice them as early as two weeks after you're infected. Some people with acute or chronic hepatitis B may not have any symptoms, especially young children.
Hepatitis B symptoms may include:
Pain in the stomach area, also called the abdomen.
Dark urine.
Fever.
Joint pain.
Loss of appetite.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Weakness and extreme tiredness.
Jaundice, which is a yellowing of the whites of the eyes and the skin. Depending on skin color, this change may be harder or easier to see.
Causes for Hepatitis B :
Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). The virus passes from person to person through blood, semen or other body fluids. It does not spread by sneezing or coughing.
Common ways that HBV can spread are:
Sexual contact. You may get hepatitis B if you have sex with someone who is infected and you don't use a condom. The virus can pass to you if the person's blood, saliva, semen or vaginal fluids enter your body.
Sharing of needles. HBV easily spreads through needles and syringes that are tainted with infected blood. Sharing equipment used to inject illicit drugs puts you at high risk of hepatitis B.
Accidental needlesticks. Hepatitis B is a concern for healthcare workers and anyone else who comes in contact with human blood.
Pregnant person to newborn. Pregnant people infected with HBV can pass the virus to their babies during childbirth. But the newborn can be vaccinated to prevent getting infected in almost all cases. Talk with your healthcare professional about being tested for hepatitis B if you are pregnant or want to become pregnant.
Risk Factors for Hepatitis B:
The hepatitis B virus spreads through contact with blood, semen or other body fluids from an infected person. Your risk of HBV infection rises if you:
Have sex without a condom with multiple sex partners or with someone who's infected with HBV.
Share needles during the use of drugs injected into a vein.
Are born male and have sex with men.
Live with someone who has a chronic HBV infection.
Are an infant who was born to an infected pregnant person.
Have a job that exposes you to human blood.
Have hepatitis C or HIV.
Receive dialysis treatment.
Are or have been in prison.
Need to take medicine that can weaken the immune system, such as chemotherapy.
Travel to regions with high infection rates of HBV, such as Asia, the Pacific Islands, Africa and Eastern Europe.
Complications for Hepatitis B:
Having a chronic HBV infection can lead to serious health conditions called complications. These include:
Scarring of the liver, also called cirrhosis. Swelling called inflammation is linked with hepatitis B. The inflammation can lead to cirrhosis that may prevent the liver from working as it should.
Liver cancer. People with chronic hepatitis B have a higher risk of liver cancer.
Liver failure. Acute liver failure is a condition in which the vital functions of the liver shut down. When that happens, a liver transplant is needed to stay alive.
Sudden increase in the level of hepatitis B virus. In some people with chronic hepatitis B, levels of the virus are low or haven't yet been found by tests. If the virus starts to quickly make copies of itself, tests may spot this rise or find the virus. This is called reactivation of the virus. It can lead to liver damage or even liver failure.
Reactivation tends to affect people who have weakened immune systems, also called suppressed immune systems. This includes people on medicines that weakens the immune system, such as high-dose corticosteroids or chemotherapy. Before taking these medicines, you should be tested for hepatitis B. If testing shows that you have hepatitis B, see a liver specialist called a hepatologist before you start these medicines.
Other conditions. People with chronic hepatitis B may develop kidney disease or inflammation of blood vessels.
Preventions for Hepatitis B
The hepatitis B vaccine is the main way to prevent infection with HBV. The vaccine is given as two shots one month apart, or three or four shots over six months. How many shots you get depends on the type of hepatitis B vaccine that you're given. You can't get hepatitis B from the vaccine.
In the United States, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices recommends that infants get their first shot of the vaccine after they're born. If you didn't get vaccinated as a baby or child, the committee still recommends the vaccine for everyone through age 59. If you're age 60 or older and haven't gotten vaccinated, get the vaccine if you're at risk of being exposed to the hepatitis B virus. People 60 and over who haven't been vaccinated and are not at high risk also can choose to get the vaccine.
The hepatitis B vaccine is strongly recommended for:
Newborns.
Children and adolescents not vaccinated at birth.
Those who work or live in centers for people who have developmental disabilities.
People who live with someone who has hepatitis B.
Healthcare workers, emergency workers and other people who come into contact with blood.
Anyone who has a sexually transmitted infection, including HIV.
People born male who have sex with men.
People who have multiple sexual partners.
Sexual partners of someone who has hepatitis B.
People who inject street drugs or share needles and syringes.
People with chronic liver disease.
People with end-stage kidney disease.
Travelers planning to go to an area of the world with a high HBV infection rate.
Condition name:Hepatitis C
Overview of Hepatitis C:
Hepatitis C is a viral infection that causes liver swelling, called inflammation. Hepatitis C can lead to serious liver damage. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) spreads through contact with blood that has the virus in it.
Newer antiviral medicines are the treatment of choice for most people with the ongoing, called chronic, hepatitis C infection. These medicines often can cure chronic hepatitis C.
But many people with hepatitis C don't know they have it. That's mainly because symptoms can take decades to appear. So, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends that all adults ages 18 to 79 years be screened for hepatitis C.
Screening is for everyone, even those who don't have symptoms or known liver disease.
There are no home remedies available for Hepatitis C in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hepatitis C :
Every long-term hepatitis C infection starts with what's called an acute phase. Acute hepatitis C usually isn't diagnosed because it rarely causes symptoms. When there are symptoms in this phase, they may include jaundice, fatigue, nausea, fever and muscle aches.
Long-term infection with the hepatitis C virus is called chronic hepatitis C. Chronic hepatitis C usually has no symptoms for many years. Symptoms appear only after the virus damages the liver enough to cause them.
Symptoms can include:
Bleeding easily.
Bruising easily.
Fatigue.
Not wanting to eat.
Yellowing of the skin, called jaundice. This might show up more in white people. Also, yellowing of the whites of the eyes in white, Black and brown people.
Dark-colored urine.
Itchy skin.
Fluid buildup in the stomach area, called ascites.
Swelling in the legs.
Weight loss.
Confusion, drowsiness and slurred speech, called hepatic encephalopathy.
Spiderlike blood vessels on the skin, called spider angiomas.
Acute hepatitis C infection doesn't always become chronic. Some people clear the infection from their bodies after the acute phase. This is called spontaneous viral clearance. Antiviral therapy also helps clear acute hepatitis C.
Causes for Hepatitis C :
Hepatitis C infection is caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV). The infection spreads when blood that has the virus enters the bloodstream of a person who isn't affected.
Around the world, hepatitis C infection exists in several forms, called genotypes. There are seven genotypes and 67 subtypes. The most common hepatitis C genotype in the United States is type 1.
Chronic hepatitis C follows the same course no matter what the genotype of the infecting virus. But treatment can vary depending on viral genotype. However, newer antiviral drugs can treat many genotypes.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hepatitis C in the knowledge baseComplications for Hepatitis C:
Hepatitis C infection that continues over many years can cause serious complications, such as:
Scarring of the liver, called cirrhosis. Scarring can occur after decades of hepatitis C infection. Liver scarring makes it hard for the liver to work.
Liver cancer. A small number of people with hepatitis C infection get liver cancer.
Liver failure. A lot of scarring can cause the liver to stop working.
Preventions for Hepatitis C
The following might protect from hepatitis C infection:
Stop using illegal drugs. If you use illegal drugs, seek help.
Be careful about body piercing and tattooing. For piercing or tattooing, look for a shop that's known to be clean. Ask questions about how the equipment is cleaned. Make sure the employees use sterile needles. If employees won't answer questions, look for another shop.
Practice safer sex. Don't have sex without protection with any partner whose health status you don't know. Don't have sex with more than one partner. The risk of couples who only have sex with each other getting hepatitis C through sex is low.
Condition name:Hepatocellular carcinoma
Overview of Hepatocellular carcinoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Hepatocellular carcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hepatocellular carcinoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Hepatocellular carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Hepatocellular carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hepatocellular carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hepatocellular carcinoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hepatopulmonary syndrome
Overview of Hepatopulmonary syndrome:
Hepatopulmonary (hep-uh-toe-POOL-moe-nar-e) syndrome is caused by blood vessels in the lungs expanding, also called dilating, and increasing in number. This condition affects the lungs of people who have advanced liver disease.
These changes in the lungs make it hard for red blood cells to take in oxygen. Then the lungs can't send enough oxygen to the body. This leads to low oxygen levels in the blood, also called hypoxemia.
How liver disease is linked to the lung condition isn't yet known. A liver transplant is the only cure for hepatopulmonary syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for Hepatopulmonary syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hepatopulmonary syndrome :
Often, there are no symptoms of hepatopulmonary syndrome. If there are symptoms, they can include:
Shortness of breath that's worse when sitting or standing and gets better when lying down.
Clubbing of the fingers, in which the fingertips spread out and become rounder than usual.
Broken blood vessels under the skin, called spider angioma.
Bluish tinge of the lips and skin in white people. In Black and brown people, the lips or tongue might look light gray. This change in color is called cyanosis.
Causes for Hepatopulmonary syndrome :
Hepatopulmonary syndrome is caused when blood vessels in and around the lungs widen, also called dilate. This affects the amount of oxygen that moves from the lungs into the bloodstream.
What causes this is not clear. And it's not known why some people with liver disease develop hepatopulmonary syndrome while others do not.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hepatopulmonary syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hepatopulmonary syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hepatopulmonary syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia
Overview of Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia:
Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (tuh-lan-jee-uk-TAY-zhuh) is an inherited disorder that causes abnormal connections, called arteriovenous malformations (AVMs), to develop between arteries and veins. The most common locations affected are the nose, lungs, brain and liver.
These AVMs may enlarge over time and can bleed or rupture, sometimes causing catastrophic complications.
Spontaneous and unprovoked nosebleeds, sometimes on a daily basis, are the most common feature. Persistent bleeding from the nose and the intestinal tract can result in severe iron deficiency anemia and poor quality of life.
Also known as Osler-Weber-Rendu disease, hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is a genetic disorder that you inherit from your parents. Its severity can vary greatly from person to person, even within the same family.
If you have HHT, you may want to have your children checked for the disease because they can be affected even if they're not experiencing any symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia :
Signs and symptoms of HHT include:
Nosebleeds, sometimes on a daily basis and often starting in childhood
Lacy red vessels or tiny red spots, particularly on the lips, face, fingertips, tongue and inside surfaces of the mouth
Iron deficiency anemia
Shortness of breath
Headaches
Seizures
There are no Causes available for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Herniated disk
Overview of Herniated disk:
A herniated disk refers to a problem with one of the rubbery cushions, called disks, that sit between the bones that stack to make the spine. These bones are called vertebrae.
A spinal disk has a soft, jellylike center called a nucleus. The nucleus is encased in a tougher, rubbery exterior, known as the annulus. A herniated disk occurs when some of the nucleus pushes out through a tear in the annulus. A herniated disk is sometimes called a slipped disk or a ruptured disk.
A herniated disk, which can occur in any part of the spine, most often occurs in the lower back. Depending on where the herniated disk is, it can result in pain, numbness or weakness in an arm or a leg.
Many people have no symptoms from a herniated disk. For people who do have symptoms, the symptoms tend to improve over time. Surgery is usually not needed to relieve the problem.
There are no home remedies available for Herniated disk in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Herniated disk :
Most herniated disks occur in the lower back, but they also can occur in the neck. Symptoms depend on where the disk is sitting and whether the disk is pressing on a nerve. Herniated disks often affect one side of the body.
Arm or leg pain. If your herniated disk is in your lower back, you'll typically feel pain in your lower back, buttocks, thigh and calf. You might have pain in part of your foot as well.
For a herniated disk in your neck, you'll typically feel the most pain in your shoulder and arm. This pain might shoot into your arm or leg when you cough, sneeze or move into certain positions. Pain is often described as sharp or burning.
Numbness or tingling. People who have herniated disks often have radiating numbness or tingling in the body part served by the affected nerves.
Weakness. Muscles served by the affected nerves tend to weaken. This can cause you to stumble or affect your ability to lift or hold items.
You can have a herniated disk without symptoms. You might not know you have it unless it shows up on a spinal image.
Causes for Herniated disk :
Disk herniation is most often the result of a gradual, aging-related wear and tear called disk degeneration. As people age, the disks become less flexible and more prone to tearing or rupturing with even a minor strain or twist.
Most people can't pinpoint the cause of their herniated disk. Sometimes, using the back muscles instead of the leg and thigh muscles to lift heavy objects can lead to a herniated disk. Twisting and turning while lifting also can cause a herniated disk. Rarely, a traumatic event such as a fall or a blow to the back is the cause.
Risk Factors for Herniated disk:
Factors that can increase the risk of a herniated disk include:
Weight. Excess body weight causes extra stress on the disks in the lower back.
Occupation. People with physically demanding jobs have a greater risk of back problems. Repetitive lifting, pulling, pushing, bending sideways and twisting also can increase the risk of a herniated disk.
Genetics. Some people inherit a predisposition to developing a herniated disk.
Smoking. It's thought that smoking lessens the oxygen supply to disks, causing them to break down more quickly.
Frequent driving. Being seated for long periods combined with the vibration from a motor vehicle engine can put pressure on the spine.
Being sedentary. Regular exercise can help prevent a herniated disk.
Complications for Herniated disk:
Just above your waist, your spinal cord ends. What continues through the spinal canal is a group of long nerve roots that resembles a horse's tail, called the cauda equina.
Rarely, disk herniation can compress the entire spinal canal, including all the nerves of the cauda equina. In rare instances, emergency surgery might be needed to avoid permanent weakness or paralysis.
Seek emergency medical attention if you have:
Worsening symptoms. Pain, numbness or weakness can increase to the point that they hamper your daily activities.
Bladder or bowel dysfunction. Cauda equina syndrome can cause incontinence or trouble urinating even with a full bladder.
Saddle anesthesia. This progressive loss of sensation affects the areas that would touch a saddle — the inner thighs, the backs of the legs and the area around the rectum.
Preventions for Herniated disk
To help prevent a herniated disk, do the following:
Exercise. Strengthening the trunk muscles stabilizes and supports the spine.
Maintain good posture. This reduces pressure on your spine and disks. Keep your back straight and aligned, particularly when sitting for long periods. Lift heavy objects properly, making your legs — not your back — do most of the work.
Maintain a healthy weight. Excess weight puts more pressure on the spine and disks, making them more susceptible to herniation.
Quit smoking. Avoid the use of any tobacco products.
Condition name:Hiatal hernia
Overview of Hiatal hernia:
A hiatal hernia happens when the upper part of the stomach bulges through the large muscle that separates the abdomen and the chest. The muscle is called the diaphragm.
The diaphragm has a small opening called a hiatus. The tube used for swallowing food, called the esophagus, passes through the hiatus before connecting to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia, the stomach pushes up through that opening and into the chest.
A small hiatal hernia usually doesn't cause problems. You may never know you have one unless your healthcare team discovers it when checking for another condition.
But a large hiatal hernia can allow food and acid to back up into your esophagus. This can cause heartburn. Self-care measures or medicines can usually relieve these symptoms. A very large hiatal hernia might need surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Hiatal hernia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hiatal hernia :
Most small hiatal hernias cause no symptoms. But larger hiatal hernias can cause:
Heartburn.
Backward flow of swallowed food or liquids into the mouth, called regurgitation.
Backflow of stomach acid into the esophagus, called acid reflux.
Trouble swallowing.
Chest or abdominal pain.
Feeling full soon after you eat.
Shortness of breath.
Vomiting of blood or passing of black stools, which could mean bleeding in the digestive tract.
Causes for Hiatal hernia :
A hiatal hernia occurs when weakened muscle tissue allows your stomach to bulge up through your diaphragm. It's not always clear why this happens. But a hiatal hernia might be caused by:
Age-related changes in your diaphragm.
Injury to the area, for example, after trauma or certain types of surgery.
Being born with a very large hiatus.
Constant and intense pressure on the surrounding muscles. This can happen while coughing, vomiting, straining during a bowel movement, exercising or lifting heavy objects.
Risk Factors for Hiatal hernia:
Hiatal hernias are most common in people who are:
Age 50 or older.
Obese.
There are no Complications available for Hiatal hernia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hiatal hernia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hiccups
Overview of Hiccups:
Hiccups are repeated spasms or sudden movements of the diaphragm that you can't control. The diaphragm is the muscle that separates your chest from your stomach area and plays an important role in breathing. A spasm in your diaphragm causes your vocal cords to suddenly close, producing a "hic" sound.
Eating a large meal, drinking alcoholic or carbonated beverages, or getting excited suddenly may cause hiccups. In some cases, hiccups may be a sign of an underlying medical issue. For most people, hiccups usually last only a few minutes. Rarely, hiccups may continue for months. When they last that long, they can result in weight loss and extreme tiredness.
There are no home remedies available for Hiccups in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hiccups :
Symptoms include uncontrolled spasms in your diaphragm and a "hic" sound. Sometimes you may feel a slight tightening sensation in your chest, stomach area or throat.
Causes for Hiccups :
The most common triggers for hiccups that last less than 48 hours include:
Drinking carbonated beverages.
Drinking too much alcohol.
Eating too much.
Being excited or under emotional stress.
Experiencing sudden temperature changes.
Swallowing air, such as when chewing gum or smoking.
Issues that may cause hiccups to last more than 48 hours include nerve damage or irritation, central nervous system disorders, metabolic issues, and certain drug and alcohol problems.
Risk Factors for Hiccups:
Males are much more likely to develop long-term hiccups than females. Other factors that may increase your risk of hiccups include:
Mental or emotional issues. Anxiety, stress and excitement have been linked with some cases of hiccups.
Surgery. Some people develop hiccups after general anesthesia or procedures that involve organs in the stomach area.
Complications for Hiccups:
Ongoing hiccups may interfere with eating, drinking, sleeping and speaking. Hiccups also can worsen pain.
There are no preventive measures available for Hiccups in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hidradenitis suppurativa
Overview of Hidradenitis suppurativa:
Hidradenitis suppurativa (hi-drad-uh-NIE-tis sup-yoo-ruh-TIE-vuh), also known as acne inversa, is a condition that causes small, painful lumps to form under the skin. The lumps usually develop in areas where your skin rubs together, such as the armpits, groin, buttocks and breasts. The lumps heal slowly, recur, and can lead to tunnels under the skin and scarring.
Hidradenitis suppurativa tends to start after puberty, usually before age 40. It can persist for many years and worsen over time. It can affect your daily life and emotional well-being. Combined medical and surgical therapy can help manage the disease and prevent complications.
Women are three times more likely to develop hidradenitis suppurativa, though this ratio can differ by location around the world. Also, Black people are more likely to develop this disease than people of other races. This could be attributed to genetic factors.
There are no home remedies available for Hidradenitis suppurativa in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hidradenitis suppurativa :
Hidradenitis suppurativa can affect one or several areas of the body. Signs and symptoms of the condition include:
Blackheads. Blackheads appear in small, pitted areas of skin, often appearing in pairs.
Painful pea-sized lumps. The condition usually starts with a single, painful lump under the skin that persists for weeks or months. More bumps may form later, usually in areas where you have more sweat and oil glands or where the skin rubs together, such as the armpits, groin, buttocks and breasts.
Leaking bumps or sores. Some bumps or sores get bigger, break open and drain pus with an odor.
Tunnels. Over time, tunnels might form under the skin, connecting the lumps. These wounds heal slowly, if at all, and drain blood and pus.
Some people with this condition experience only mild symptoms. The course of the disease is highly variable. Excess weight and being a smoker are associated with worse symptoms, but people who are thin and don't smoke can experience severe disease.
Causes for Hidradenitis suppurativa :
Hidradenitis suppurativa develops when hair follicles become blocked, but why this blockage occurs isn't known. Experts think it could be connected to hormones, genetic predisposition, cigarette smoking or excess weight.
An infection or being unclean does not cause hidradenitis suppurativa, and it can't be spread to other people.
Risk Factors for Hidradenitis suppurativa:
Factors that increase your chance of developing hidradenitis suppurativa include:
Age. The risk of hidradenitis suppurativa is higher for people in their teens and 20s.
Sex. Females are more likely to develop hidradenitis suppurativa than males.
Race. Ethnicity or race might affect risk level. The condition occurs most in Black people, possibly due to genetic factors.
Family history. A tendency to develop hidradenitis suppurativa can be inherited.
Certain conditions. Hidradenitis suppurativa is more common and severe in people who are overweight. It also has an association with severe acne, arthritis, diabetes, metabolic syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease.
Smoking. Smoking tobacco has been linked to hidradenitis suppurativa.
Complications for Hidradenitis suppurativa:
Persistent and severe hidradenitis suppurativa can cause complications, including:
Infection. Secondary infection is possible in the affected area, but the presence of pus is common in hidradenitis suppurativa and doesn't necessarily mean infection.
Scars and skin changes. The wounds may heal but leave ropelike scars or pitted skin.
Restricted movement. Sores and scar tissue can cause limited or painful movement, especially when the disease affects the armpits or thighs.
Skin cancer. Squamous cell carcinoma has been reported with long-term hidradenitis suppurativa, particularly in people whose condition involves the perianal area. This area consists of the tissues around the anus.
Swelling in the arms, legs or genitals. The most common sites for hidradenitis suppurativa also contain many lymph nodes. Scar tissue can interfere with the lymph drainage system, which can cause the arms, legs or genitals to swell.
Psychological effects and social isolation. The location, drainage and odor of the sores can cause embarrassment and reluctance to go out in public, leading to anxiety or depression.
Lifelong pain. This pain is much worse than diseases such as psoriasis.
There are no preventive measures available for Hidradenitis suppurativa in the knowledge baseCondition name:High cholesterol
Overview of High cholesterol:
Cholesterol is a waxy substance found in your blood. Your body needs cholesterol to build healthy cells, but high levels of cholesterol can increase your risk of heart disease.
With high cholesterol, you can develop fatty deposits in your blood vessels. Eventually, these deposits grow, making it difficult for enough blood to flow through your arteries. Sometimes, those deposits can break suddenly and form a clot that causes a heart attack or stroke.
High cholesterol can be inherited, but it's often the result of unhealthy lifestyle choices, which make it preventable and treatable. A healthy diet, regular exercise and sometimes medication can help reduce high cholesterol.
There are no home remedies available for High cholesterol in the knowledge baseSymptoms for High cholesterol :
High cholesterol has no symptoms. A blood test is the only way to detect if you have it.
Causes for High cholesterol :
Cholesterol is carried through your blood, attached to proteins. This combination of proteins and cholesterol is called a lipoprotein. There are different types of cholesterol, based on what the lipoprotein carries. They are:
Low-density lipoprotein (LDL). LDL, the "bad" cholesterol, transports cholesterol particles throughout your body. LDL cholesterol builds up in the walls of your arteries, making them hard and narrow.
High-density lipoprotein (HDL). HDL, the "good" cholesterol, picks up excess cholesterol and takes it back to your liver.
A lipid profile also typically measures triglycerides, a type of fat in the blood. Having a high triglyceride level also can increase your risk of heart disease.
Factors you can control — such as inactivity, obesity and an unhealthy diet — contribute to harmful cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Factors beyond your control might play a role, too. For example, your genetic makeup might make it more difficult for your body to remove LDL cholesterol from your blood or break it down in the liver.
Medical conditions that can cause unhealthy cholesterol levels include:
Chronic kidney disease
Diabetes
HIV/AIDS
Hypothyroidism
Lupus
Cholesterol levels can also be worsened by some types of medications you may be taking for other health problems, such as:
Acne
Cancer
High blood pressure
HIV/AIDS
Irregular heart rhythms
Organ transplants
Risk Factors for High cholesterol:
Factors that can increase your risk of unhealthy cholesterol levels include:
Poor diet. Eating too much saturated fat or trans fats can result in unhealthy cholesterol levels. Saturated fats are found in fatty cuts of meat and full-fat dairy products. Trans fats are often found in packaged snacks or desserts.
Obesity. Having a body mass index (BMI) of 30 or greater puts you at risk of high cholesterol.
Lack of exercise. Exercise helps boost your body's HDL, the "good," cholesterol.
Smoking. Cigarette smoking may lower your level of HDL, the "good," cholesterol.
Alcohol. Drinking too much alcohol can increase your total cholesterol level.
Age. Even young children can have unhealthy cholesterol, but it's much more common in people over 40. As you age, your liver becomes less able to remove LDL cholesterol.
Complications for High cholesterol:
High cholesterol can cause a dangerous accumulation of cholesterol and other deposits on the walls of your arteries (atherosclerosis). These deposits (plaques) can reduce blood flow through your arteries, which can cause complications, such as:
Chest pain. If the arteries that supply your heart with blood (coronary arteries) are affected, you might have chest pain (angina) and other symptoms of coronary artery disease.
Heart attack. If plaques tear or rupture, a blood clot can form at the plaque-rupture site — blocking the flow of blood or breaking free and plugging an artery downstream. If blood flow to part of your heart stops, you'll have a heart attack.
Stroke. Similar to a heart attack, a stroke occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow to part of your brain.
Preventions for High cholesterol
The same heart-healthy lifestyle changes that can lower your cholesterol can help prevent you from having high cholesterol in the first place. To help prevent high cholesterol, you can:
Eat a low-salt diet that emphasizes fruits, vegetables and whole grains
Limit the amount of animal fats and use good fats in moderation
Lose extra pounds and maintain a healthy weight
Quit smoking
Exercise on most days of the week for at least 30 minutes
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all
Manage stress
Condition name:Hilar cholangiocarcinoma
Overview of Hilar cholangiocarcinoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hilar cholangiocarcinoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hip dysplasia
Overview of Hip dysplasia:
Hip dysplasia is the medical term for a hip socket that doesn't fully cover the ball portion of the upper thighbone. This allows the hip joint to become partially or completely dislocated. Most people with hip dysplasia are born with the condition.
Healthcare professionals will check your baby for signs of hip dysplasia shortly after birth and during well-baby visits. If hip dysplasia is diagnosed in early infancy, a soft brace can usually correct the problem.
Mild hip dysplasia might not start causing symptoms until a person is a teenager or young adult. Hip dysplasia can damage the cartilage lining the joint. It also can hurt the soft cartilage, called the labrum, that rims the socket portion of the hip joint. This is called a hip labral tear.
In older children and young adults, surgery may be needed to move the bones into the proper positions for smooth joint movement.
There are no home remedies available for Hip dysplasia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hip dysplasia :
Symptoms vary by age group. In infants, you might notice that one leg is longer than the other. Once a child begins walking, a limp may develop. During diaper changes, one hip may be less flexible than the other.
In teenagers and young adults, hip dysplasia can cause painful complications such as osteoarthritis or a hip labral tear. This may cause activity-related groin pain. Sometimes, there might be a sensation of instability in the hip.
Causes for Hip dysplasia :
At birth, the hip joint is made of soft cartilage that gradually hardens into bone. The ball and socket need to fit together well because they act as molds for each other. If the ball isn't seated firmly into the socket, the socket will not fully form around the ball and will become too shallow.
During the final month before birth, the space within the womb can become so crowded that the ball of the hip joint moves out of its proper position. This results in a shallower socket. Factors that may reduce the amount of space in the womb include:
First pregnancy.
Large baby.
Breech presentation.
Risk Factors for Hip dysplasia:
Hip dysplasia tends to run in families and is more common in girls. The risk of hip dysplasia is also higher in babies born in the breech position and in babies who are swaddled tightly with the hips and knees straight.
Complications for Hip dysplasia:
Later in life, hip dysplasia can damage the soft cartilage, called the labrum, that rims the socket portion of the hip joint. This is called a hip labral tear. Hip dysplasia can also make the joint more likely to develop osteoarthritis. This happens because of higher contact pressures over a smaller surface of the socket. Over time, this wears away the smooth cartilage on the bones that helps them glide against each other as the joint moves.
There are no preventive measures available for Hip dysplasia in the knowledge baseCondition name:HIV/AIDS
Overview of HIV/AIDS:
Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), is an ongoing, also called chronic, condition. It's caused by the human immunodeficiency virus, also called HIV. HIV damages the immune system so that the body is less able to fight infection and disease. If HIV isn't treated, it can take years before it weakens the immune system enough to become AIDS. Thanks to treatment, most people in the U.S. don't get AIDS.
HIV is spread through contact with genitals, such as during sex without a condom. This type of infection is called a sexually transmitted infection, also called an STI. HIV also is spread through contact with blood, such as when people share needles or syringes. It is also possible for a person with untreated HIV to spread the virus to a child during pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.
There's no cure for HIV/AIDS. But medicines can control the infection and keep the disease from getting worse. Antiviral treatments for HIV have reduced AIDS deaths around the world. There's an ongoing effort to make ways to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS more available in resource-poor countries.
There are no home remedies available for HIV/AIDS in the knowledge baseSymptoms for HIV/AIDS :
The symptoms of HIV and AIDS vary depending on the person and the phase of infection.
Causes for HIV/AIDS :
HIV is caused by a virus. It can spread through sexual contact, shooting of illicit drugs or use of shared needles, and contact with infected blood. It also can spread from parent to child during pregnancy, childbirth or breastfeeding.
HIV destroys white blood cells called CD4 T cells. These cells play a large role in helping the body fight disease. The fewer CD4 T cells you have, the weaker your immune system becomes.
Risk Factors for HIV/AIDS:
Anyone of any age, race, sex or sexual orientation can have HIV/AIDS. However, you're at greatest risk of HIV/AIDS if you:
Have unprotected sex. Use a new latex or polyurethane condom every time you have sex. Anal sex is riskier than is vaginal sex. Your risk of HIV increases if you have more than one sexual partner.
Have an STI. Many STIs cause open sores on the genitals. These sores allow HIV to enter the body.
Inject illicit drugs. If you share needles and syringes, you can be exposed to infected blood.
Complications for HIV/AIDS:
HIV infection weakens your immune system. The infection makes you much more likely to get many infections and certain types of cancers.
Preventions for HIV/AIDS
There's no vaccine to prevent HIV infection and no cure for HIV/AIDS. But you can protect yourself and others from infection.
To help prevent the spread of HIV:
Consider preexposure prophylaxis, also called PrEP. There are two PrEP medicines taken by mouth, also called oral, and one PrEP medicine given in the form of a shot, called injectable. The oral medicines are emtricitabine-tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Truvada) and emtricitabine-tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (Descovy). The injectable medicine is called cabotegravir (Apretude). PrEP can reduce the risk of sexually transmitted HIV infection in people at very high risk.
PrEP can reduce the risk of getting HIV from sex by about 99% and from injecting drugs by at least 74%, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Descovy hasn't been studied in people who have sex by having a penis put into their vaginas, called receptive vaginal sex.
Cabotegravir (Apretude) is the first U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved PrEP that can be given as a shot to reduce the risk of sexually transmitted HIV infection in people at very high risk. A healthcare professional gives the shot. After two once-monthly shots, Apretude is given every two months. The shot is an option in place of a daily PrEP pill.
Your healthcare professional prescribes these medicines to prevent HIV only to people who don't already have HIV infection. You need an HIV test before you start taking any PrEP. You need to take the test every three months for the pills or before each shot for as long as you take PrEP.
You need to take the pills every day or closely follow the shot schedule. You still need to practice safe sex to protect against other STIs. If you have hepatitis B, you should see an infectious disease or liver specialist before beginning PrEP therapy.
Use treatment as prevention, also called TasP. If you have HIV, taking HIV medicines can keep your partner from getting infected with the virus. If your blood tests show no virus, that means your viral load can't be detected. Then you won't transmit the virus to anyone else through sex.
If you use TasP, you must take your medicines exactly as prescribed and get regular checkups.
Use post-exposure prophylaxis, also called PEP, if you've been exposed to HIV. If you think you've been exposed through sex, through needles or in the workplace, contact your healthcare professional or go to an emergency room. Taking PEP as soon as you can within the first 72 hours can greatly reduce your risk of getting HIV. You need to take the medicine for 28 days.
Use a new condom every time you have anal or vaginal sex. Both male and female condoms are available. If you use a lubricant, make sure it's water based. Oil-based lubricants can weaken condoms and cause them to break.
During oral sex, use a cut-open condom or a piece of medical-grade latex called a dental dam without a lubricant.
Tell your sexual partners you have HIV. It's important to tell all your current and past sexual partners that you're HIV positive. They need to be tested.
Use clean needles. If you use needles to inject illicit drugs, make sure the needles are sterile. Don't share them. Use needle-exchange programs in your community. Seek help for your drug use.
If you're pregnant, get medical care right away. You can pass HIV to your baby. But if you get treatment during pregnancy, you can lessen your baby's risk greatly.
Consider male circumcision. Studies show that removing the foreskin from the penis, called circumcision, can help reduce the risk of getting HIV infection.
Condition name:Hives and angioedema
Overview of Hives and angioedema:
Hives — also known as urticaria (ur-tih-KAR-e-uh) — is a skin reaction that causes itchy welts that range in size from small spots to large blotches. Hives can be triggered by many situations and substances, including certain foods and medications.
Angioedema can arise with hives or alone. It causes swelling in the deeper layers of skin, often around the face and lips. Short-lived (acute) hives and angioedema are common. Most times, they are harmless, clear up within in a day and don't leave any lasting marks, even without treatment. Hives that last longer than six weeks are called chronic hives.
Hives and angioedema are usually treated with antihistamine medication. Angioedema can be life-threatening if swelling of the tongue or in the throat blocks the airway.
There are no home remedies available for Hives and angioedema in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hives and angioedema :
Not found
Causes for Hives and angioedema :
For most people who experience acute hives and angioedema, the exact cause can't be identified. The conditions are sometimes caused by:
Foods. Many foods can trigger reactions in people with sensitivities. Shellfish, fish, peanuts, tree nuts, soy, eggs and milk are frequent offenders.
Medications. Many medications may cause hives or angioedema, including penicillins, aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve) and blood pressure medications.
Airborne allergens. Pollen and other allergens that you breathe in can trigger hives, sometimes accompanied by upper and lower respiratory tract symptoms.
Insect bites and infections. Other causes of acute hives and angioedema are insect bites and infections.
Risk Factors for Hives and angioedema:
Hives and angioedema are common. You may be at increased risk of hives and angioedema if you:
Have had hives or angioedema before
Have had other allergic reactions
Have a family history of hives, angioedema or hereditary angioedema
Complications for Hives and angioedema:
Severe angioedema can be life-threatening if swelling of the tongue or in the throat blocks the airway.
Preventions for Hives and angioedema
To lower your likelihood of experiencing hives or angioedema, take the following precautions:
Avoid known triggers. If you know what has triggered your hives, try to avoid that substance.
Bathe and change your clothes. If pollen or animal contact has triggered your hives in the past, take a bath or shower and change your clothes if you're exposed to pollen or animals.
Condition name:Hoarding disorder
Overview of Hoarding disorder:
Hoarding disorder is an ongoing difficulty throwing away or parting with possessions because you believe that you need to save them. You may experience distress at the thought of getting rid of the items. You gradually keep or gather a huge number of items, regardless of their actual value.
Hoarding often creates extremely cramped living conditions with only narrow pathways winding through stacks of clutter. Countertops, sinks, stoves, desks, stairways and all other surfaces are usually piled with stuff. You may not be able to use some areas for their intended purpose. For example, you may not be able to cook in the kitchen. When there's no more room inside your home, the clutter may spread to the garage, vehicles, yard and other storage areas.
Hoarding ranges from mild to severe. In some cases, hoarding may not have much impact on your life, while in other cases it seriously affects your daily functioning.
People with hoarding disorder may not see it as a problem, so getting them to take part in treatment can be challenging. But intensive treatment can help you understand how your beliefs and behaviors can be changed so that you can live a safer, more enjoyable life.
There are no home remedies available for Hoarding disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hoarding disorder :
The first symptoms of hoarding disorder often appear during the teenage to early adult years. You may get and save too many items, gradually build up clutter in living spaces, and have difficulty getting rid of things.
As you grow older, you may continue getting and holding onto things that you may never use and don't have space for. By middle age, the clutter can become overwhelming as symptoms become more severe and increasingly difficult to treat.
Problems with hoarding gradually develop over time and tend to be a private behavior. You may avoid having family, friends or repair workers in your home. Often, major clutter has developed by the time it reaches the attention of others.
Symptoms of hoarding disorder may include:
Getting and keeping too many items that you may not have a need for right now and don't have space for.
Ongoing difficulty throwing out or parting with your things, regardless of their actual value.
Feeling a need to save these items and being upset by the thought of getting rid of them.
Building up clutter to the point where you can't use rooms.
Trying to be perfect and avoiding or delaying decisions.
Problems with planning and organizing.
Getting too many items and refusing to part with them results in:
Disorganized piles or stacks of items, such as newspapers, clothes, paperwork, books or sentimental items.
Items that crowd and clutter your walking spaces and living areas. Rooms can't be used for the intended purpose, such as not being able to sleep in your bed.
Buildup of food or trash to large, unsanitary levels.
Distress or problems functioning or keeping yourself, others and pets safe in your home.
Conflict with others who try to reduce or remove clutter from your home.
Relationship issues, avoiding social activities and employment problems.
Difficulty organizing items and sometimes losing important items in the clutter.
With hoarding disorder, items are usually saved because:
You believe these items are unique or that you'll need them at some point in the future.
You feel emotionally connected to items that remind you of happier times or represent beloved people or pets.
You feel safe and comforted when surrounded by things.
You don't want to waste anything.
Hoarding disorder is different from collecting. People who have collections, such as stamps or model cars, carefully search out specific items, organize them and display their collections. Collections can be large, but they aren't usually cluttered. Also, they don't cause the distress and problems functioning that are part of hoarding disorder.
Causes for Hoarding disorder :
It's not clear what causes hoarding disorder. Genetics, brain function and stressful life events are being studied as possible causes.
Risk Factors for Hoarding disorder:
Hoarding usually starts around ages 15 to 19. It tends to get worse with age. Hoarding is more common in older adults than in younger adults.
Risk factors include:
Personality. Many people who have hoarding disorder have a behavior style that includes trouble making decisions and problems with attention, organization and problem-solving.
Family history. There is a strong association between having a family member who has hoarding disorder and having the disorder yourself.
Stressful life events. Some people develop hoarding disorder after experiencing a stressful life event that they had difficulty coping with, such as the death of a loved one, divorce or losing possessions in a fire.
Complications for Hoarding disorder:
Hoarding disorder can cause a variety of complications, including:
Increased risk of falls.
Injury or being trapped by shifting or falling items.
Family conflicts.
Loneliness and social isolation.
Conditions that aren't clean and can be a health risk.
A fire hazard.
Poor work performance.
Legal issues, such as eviction.
Preventions for Hoarding disorder
Because little is understood about what causes hoarding disorder, there's no known way to prevent it. However, as with many mental health conditions, getting treatment at the first sign of a problem may help prevent hoarding from getting worse. This is especially important because by the time clutter becomes a noticeable problem, hoarding likely has been going on for a while.
Condition name:Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease)
Overview of Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease):
Hodgkin lymphoma is a type of cancer that affects the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is part of the body's germ-fighting and disease-fighting immune system. Hodgkin lymphoma begins when healthy cells in the lymphatic system change and grow out of control.
The lymphatic system includes lymph nodes. They are found throughout the body. Most lymph nodes are in the abdomen, groin, pelvis, chest, underarms and neck.
The lymphatic system also includes the spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow. Hodgkin lymphoma can affect all these areas and other organs in the body.
Hodgkin lymphoma, which used to be called Hodgkin disease, is one of two broad types of lymphoma. The other is non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Advances in diagnosis and treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma have helped give people with this disease the chance for a full recovery.
There are no home remedies available for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease) :
Signs and symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma may include:
Painless swelling of lymph nodes in the neck, armpits or groin.
Fever.
Feeling very tired.
Night sweats.
Weight loss that happens without trying.
Itchy skin.
Causes for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease) :
Healthcare professionals aren't sure what causes Hodgkin lymphoma. It begins with changes in the DNA of a disease-fighting blood cell called a lymphocyte. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do.
The DNA changes tell the cells to multiply quickly and live when other cells would naturally die. The Hodgkin lymphoma cells attract many healthy immune system cells to protect them and help them grow. The extra cells crowd into the lymph nodes and cause swelling and other symptoms.
There are multiple types of Hodgkin lymphoma. The type of lymphoma you have is based on the characteristics of the cells involved in your disease and their behavior. The type of lymphoma you have helps determine your treatment options.
Risk Factors for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease):
Factors that can increase the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma include:
Your age. Hodgkin lymphoma is most often diagnosed in people in their 20s and 30s and those over age 65.
A family history of Hodgkin lymphoma. Having a blood relative with Hodgkin lymphoma increases the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma.
Being male. People who are assigned male at birth are slightly more likely to develop Hodgkin lymphoma than are those who are assigned female at birth.
Past Epstein-Barr infection. People who have had illnesses caused by the Epstein-Barr virus are at higher risk of Hodgkin lymphoma than are those who haven't. One example is infectious mononucleosis.
HIV infection. People who are infected with HIV have an increased risk of Hodgkin lymphoma.
There's no way to prevent Hodgkin lymphoma.
There are no Complications available for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hodgkin lymphoma (Hodgkin disease) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease)
Overview of Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease):
Hodgkin lymphoma is a type of cancer that affects the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is part of the body's germ-fighting and disease-fighting immune system. Hodgkin lymphoma begins when healthy cells in the lymphatic system change and grow out of control.
The lymphatic system includes lymph nodes. They are found throughout the body. Most lymph nodes are in the abdomen, groin, pelvis, chest, underarms and neck.
The lymphatic system also includes the spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow. Hodgkin lymphoma can affect all these areas and other organs in the body.
Hodgkin lymphoma, which used to be called Hodgkin disease, is one of two broad types of lymphoma. The other is non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Advances in diagnosis and treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma have helped give people with this disease the chance for a full recovery.
There are no home remedies available for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease) :
Signs and symptoms of Hodgkin lymphoma may include:
Painless swelling of lymph nodes in the neck, armpits or groin.
Fever.
Feeling very tired.
Night sweats.
Weight loss that happens without trying.
Itchy skin.
Causes for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease) :
Healthcare professionals aren't sure what causes Hodgkin lymphoma. It begins with changes in the DNA of a disease-fighting blood cell called a lymphocyte. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do.
The DNA changes tell the cells to multiply quickly and live when other cells would naturally die. The Hodgkin lymphoma cells attract many healthy immune system cells to protect them and help them grow. The extra cells crowd into the lymph nodes and cause swelling and other symptoms.
There are multiple types of Hodgkin lymphoma. The type of lymphoma you have is based on the characteristics of the cells involved in your disease and their behavior. The type of lymphoma you have helps determine your treatment options.
Risk Factors for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease):
Factors that can increase the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma include:
Your age. Hodgkin lymphoma is most often diagnosed in people in their 20s and 30s and those over age 65.
A family history of Hodgkin lymphoma. Having a blood relative with Hodgkin lymphoma increases the risk of Hodgkin lymphoma.
Being male. People who are assigned male at birth are slightly more likely to develop Hodgkin lymphoma than are those who are assigned female at birth.
Past Epstein-Barr infection. People who have had illnesses caused by the Epstein-Barr virus are at higher risk of Hodgkin lymphoma than are those who haven't. One example is infectious mononucleosis.
HIV infection. People who are infected with HIV have an increased risk of Hodgkin lymphoma.
There's no way to prevent Hodgkin lymphoma.
There are no Complications available for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hodgkin's lymphoma (Hodgkin's disease) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Huntington's disease
Overview of Huntington's disease:
Huntington's disease causes nerve cells in the brain to decay over time. The disease affects a person's movements, thinking ability and mental health.
Huntington's disease is rare. It's often passed down through a changed gene from a parent.
Huntington's disease symptoms can develop at any time, but they often begin when people are in their 30s or 40s. If the disease develops before age 20, it's called juvenile Huntington's disease. When Huntington's develops early, symptoms can be different and the disease may have a faster progression.
Medicines are available to help manage the symptoms of Huntington's disease. However, treatments can't prevent the physical, mental and behavioral decline caused by the disease.
There are no home remedies available for Huntington's disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Huntington's disease :
Huntington's disease usually causes movement disorders. It also causes mental health conditions and trouble with thinking and planning. These conditions can cause a wide spectrum of symptoms. The first symptoms vary greatly from person to person. Some symptoms appear to be worse or have a greater effect on functional ability. These symptoms may change in severity throughout the course of the disease.
Causes for Huntington's disease :
Huntington's disease is caused by a difference in a single gene that's passed down from a parent. Huntington's disease follows an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. This means that a person needs only one copy of the nontypical gene to develop the disorder.
With the exception of genes on the sex chromosomes, a person inherits two copies of every gene — one copy from each parent. A parent with a nontypical gene could pass along the nontypical copy of the gene or the healthy copy. Each child in the family, therefore, has a 50 percent chance of inheriting the gene that causes the genetic condition.
Risk Factors for Huntington's disease:
People who have a parent with Huntington's disease are at risk of having the disease themselves. Children of a parent with Huntington's have a 50 percent chance of having the gene change that causes Huntington's.
Complications for Huntington's disease:
After Huntington's disease starts, a person's ability to function gradually gets worse over time. How quickly the disease gets worse and how long it takes varies. The time from the first symptoms to death is often about 10 to 30 years. Juvenile Huntington's disease usually results in death within 10 to 15 years after symptoms develop.
The depression linked with Huntington's disease may increase the risk of suicide. Some research suggests that risk of suicide is greater before a diagnosis and also when a person loses independence.
Eventually, a person with Huntington's disease requires help with all activities of daily living and care. Late in the disease, the person will likely be confined to a bed and unable to speak. Someone with Huntington's disease is generally able to understand language and has an awareness of family and friends, though some won't recognize family members.
Common causes of death include:
Pneumonia or other infections.
Injuries related to falls.
Complications related to trouble swallowing.
Preventions for Huntington's disease
People with a known family history of Huntington's disease may be concerned about whether they may pass the Huntington gene on to their children. They might consider genetic testing and family planning options.
If an at-risk parent is considering genetic testing, it can be helpful to meet with a genetic counselor. A genetic counselor explains the potential risks of a positive test result, which may mean that the parent may develop the disease. Also, couples may need to make additional choices about whether to have children or to consider alternatives. They may decide to choose prenatal testing for the gene or in vitro fertilization with donor sperm or eggs.
Another option for couples is in vitro fertilization and preimplantation genetic diagnosis. In this process, eggs are removed from the ovaries and fertilized with the father's sperm in a laboratory. The embryos are tested for the presence of the Huntington gene. Only those testing negative for the Huntington gene are implanted in the mother's uterus.
Condition name:Hydrocele
Overview of Hydrocele:
A hydrocele (HI-droe-seel) is a type of swelling in the scrotum, the pouch of skin that holds the testicles. This swelling happens when fluid collects in the thin sac that surrounds a testicle. Hydroceles are common in newborns. They often go away without treatment by age 1. Older children and adults can get a hydrocele due to an injury within the scrotum or other health problems.
A hydrocele often isn't painful or harmful. It might not need any treatment. But it's important to see a health care provider if the scrotum looks swollen.
There are no home remedies available for Hydrocele in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hydrocele :
Often the only sign of a hydrocele is a painless swelling of one or both testicles.
The swelling might make an adult's scrotum feel heavy. In general, pain gets worse as the swelling increases. Sometimes, the swollen area might be smaller in the morning and larger later in the day.
There are no Causes available for Hydrocele in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Hydrocele:
Most hydroceles are present at birth. At least 5% of newborn males have a hydrocele. Premature babies, who are born more than three weeks before their due dates, have a higher risk of having a hydrocele.
Risk factors for getting a hydrocele later in life include:
Injury or inflammation within the scrotum.
Infection, including a sexually transmitted infection.
Complications for Hydrocele:
A hydrocele often isn't dangerous and usually doesn't affect the ability to have a baby. But a hydrocele might be linked with a health problem that can cause serious issues. These problems include:
Infection or tumor. Either might cause the testicles to make less sperm or not work as well as usual.
Inguinal hernia. This can lead to life-threatening health problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Hydrocele in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hydrocephalus
Overview of Hydrocephalus:
Hydrocephalus is the buildup of fluid in cavities called ventricles deep within the brain. The excess fluid increases the size of the ventricles and puts pressure on the brain.
Cerebrospinal fluid usually flows through the ventricles and bathes the brain and spinal column. But the pressure of too much cerebrospinal fluid can damage brain tissues and cause a range of symptoms related to brain function.
Hydrocephalus can happen at any age, but it occurs more often among infants and among adults 60 and older. Surgery can restore and maintain healthy cerebrospinal fluid levels in the brain. Therapies can manage symptoms resulting from hydrocephalus.
There are no home remedies available for Hydrocephalus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hydrocephalus :
The symptoms of hydrocephalus can vary by age.
Causes for Hydrocephalus :
Hydrocephalus is caused by an imbalance between how much cerebrospinal fluid is produced and how much is absorbed into the bloodstream.
Tissues lining the ventricles of the brain produce cerebrospinal fluid. It flows through the ventricles by way of channels. The fluid eventually flows into spaces around the brain and spinal column. It's absorbed primarily by blood vessels in tissues on the surface of the brain.
Cerebrospinal fluid plays an important role in brain function by:
Allowing the relatively heavy brain to float within the skull.
Cushioning the brain to prevent injury.
Removing waste products of the brain's metabolism.
Flowing back and forth between the brain cavity and spinal column. This flow maintains a constant pressure within the brain and allows for changes in blood pressure in the brain.
Too much cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles can occur for one of the following reasons:
Obstruction. Partial blockage of the flow of cerebrospinal fluid is the most common cause of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles. A blockage may happen from one ventricle to another or from the ventricles to other spaces around the brain.
Poor absorption. Less common is a problem with absorbing cerebrospinal fluid. This is often related to inflammation of brain tissues from disease or injury.
Overproduction. Rarely, cerebrospinal fluid is created more quickly than it can be absorbed.
Risk Factors for Hydrocephalus:
Much of the time, the cause of hydrocephalus is not known. However, developmental or medical problems can contribute to or trigger hydrocephalus.
Complications for Hydrocephalus:
In most cases, hydrocephalus worsens. Without treatment, hydrocephalus leads to complications. Complications may include learning disabilities or developmental and physical disabilities. Complications of this condition also can result in death. When hydrocephalus is mild and it's treated, there may be few, if any, serious complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Hydrocephalus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hydronephrosis
Overview of Hydronephrosis:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Hydronephrosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hydronephrosis :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Hydronephrosis in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Hydronephrosis in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hydronephrosis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hydronephrosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypercalcemia
Overview of Hypercalcemia:
Hypercalcemia is a condition in which the calcium level in the blood becomes too high. Too much calcium in the blood can weaken bones and create kidney stones. It also can affect the heart and brain.
Most often, hypercalcemia happens after one or more of the parathyroid glands make too much hormone. These four tiny glands are in the neck, near the thyroid gland. Other causes of hypercalcemia include cancer, certain other medical conditions and some medicines. Taking too much of calcium and vitamin D supplements also can cause hypercalcemia.
Some people have no symptoms of this condition. Others have symptoms that range from mild to serious. Treatment depends on the cause.
There are no home remedies available for Hypercalcemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypercalcemia :
You might not have any symptoms if your hypercalcemia is mild. If it's more serious, your symptoms are related to the parts of your body affected by high blood calcium levels. Examples include:
Kidneys. Excess calcium makes the kidneys work harder to filter it. This can cause serious thirst and frequent urination.
Digestive system. Hypercalcemia can cause stomach upset or pain, vomiting, and constipation.
Bones and muscles. Most often, the extra calcium in the blood is leached from the bones. This weakens the bones. It can cause bone pain and muscle weakness.
Brain. Hypercalcemia can affect how the brain works. That can lead to trouble focusing, confusion, drowsiness and fatigue. It also can cause depression.
Heart. Rarely, serious hypercalcemia can affect the heart. It can cause feelings of a fast-beating, fluttering or pounding heart. It also can cause the heart to beat out of rhythm. It's linked with other heart-related conditions as well.
Causes for Hypercalcemia :
Calcium helps build strong bones and teeth. It also helps muscles contract and nerves send signals. When the parathyroid glands work right, they release hormones that help maintain the right balance of calcium in the blood. Parathyroid hormones trigger:
Bones to release calcium into the blood.
The digestive tract to absorb more calcium.
The kidneys to release less calcium and activate more vitamin D. Vitamin D plays a key role in the body's ability to absorb calcium.
This delicate balance between too little calcium in the blood and hypercalcemia can be affected by various factors. Hypercalcemia can be caused by:
Overactive parathyroid glands. This also is called hyperparathyroidism. It's the most common cause of hypercalcemia. Overactive parathyroid glands make too much parathyroid hormone. The condition can stem from a small tumor that isn't cancer. It also can stem from one or more of the four parathyroid glands becoming larger.
Cancer. Lung cancer, breast cancer and some blood cancers can raise the risk of hypercalcemia. Cancer that spreads to the bones also raises the risk.
Other diseases. Conditions such as tuberculosis and sarcoidosis can raise blood levels of vitamin D. That in turn spurs the digestive tract to absorb more calcium.
Genetic factors. A rare genetic condition called familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia causes an increase of calcium in the blood. This condition doesn't cause symptoms or complications of hypercalcemia.
Little or no movement. People who have a condition that causes them to spend a lot of time sitting or lying down can get hypercalcemia. Over time, bones that don't bear weight release calcium into the blood.
Serious dehydration. This is a common cause of mild or short-term hypercalcemia. Having less fluid in the blood causes a rise in calcium.
Some medicines. Medicines such as lithium and thiazide diuretics might cause more parathyroid hormone to be released.
Supplements. Taking too much calcium or vitamin D supplements over time can raise calcium levels in the blood.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hypercalcemia in the knowledge baseComplications for Hypercalcemia:
Hypercalcemia can lead to medical conditions that include:
Osteoporosis. This condition involves thinning bones. It could develop if the bones keep releasing calcium into the blood. Osteoporosis can lead to broken bones, curving of the spinal column and loss of height.
Kidney stones. If the urine contains too much calcium, crystals might form in the kidneys. Over time, the crystals can combine to form kidney stones. Passing a stone can be very painful.
Kidney failure. This condition limits the kidneys' ability to clean the blood and get rid of extra fluid. It can develop over time as hypercalcemia damages the kidneys.
Nervous system conditions. Serious hypercalcemia can lead to confusion, dementia and coma. Coma can be fatal.
Irregular heart rhythm. This also is called arrhythmia. Hypercalcemia can affect the electrical signals that control the heartbeat. That can cause the heart to beat out of rhythm.
There are no preventive measures available for Hypercalcemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypereosinophilic syndrome
Overview of Hypereosinophilic syndrome:
Hypereosinophilic (hy-per-ee-o-SIN-o-phil-ik) syndrome (HES) is a group of blood disorders that occur when you have high numbers of eosinophils — white blood cells that play an important role in your immune system. Over time, the excess eosinophils enter various tissues, eventually damaging your organs.
The most common targets are the skin, lungs, digestive tract, heart, blood and nervous system. Untreated, HES can become life-threatening.
There are no home remedies available for Hypereosinophilic syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypereosinophilic syndrome :
Early symptoms of HES may include fatigue, cough, breathlessness, muscle pain, rash and fever.
Causes for Hypereosinophilic syndrome :
Some varieties of hypereosinophilic syndrome tend to run in families. Other types have been associated with certain types of cancers, infections or other health problems.
Risk Factors for Hypereosinophilic syndrome:
HES can affect anyone. But it occurs more often in men, usually between the ages of 20 and 50.
There are no Complications available for Hypereosinophilic syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hypereosinophilic syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hyperhidrosis
Overview of Hyperhidrosis:
Hyperhidrosis (hi-pur-hi-DROE-sis) is excessive sweating that's not always related to heat or exercise. You may sweat so much that it soaks through your clothes or drips off your hands. Heavy sweating can disrupt your day and cause social anxiety and embarrassment.
Hyperhidrosis treatment usually helps. It often begins with antiperspirants. If these don't help, you may need to try different medications and therapies. In severe cases, your health care provider may suggest surgery to remove the sweat glands or to disconnect the nerves related to producing too much sweat.
Sometimes an underlying condition may be found and treated.
There are no home remedies available for Hyperhidrosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hyperhidrosis :
The main symptom of hyperhidrosis is heavy sweating. This goes beyond the sweating from being in a hot environment, exercising, or feeling anxious or stressed. The type of hyperhidrosis that usually affects the hands, feet, underarms or face causes at least one episode a week when you're awake. And the sweating usually happens on both sides of the body.
Causes for Hyperhidrosis :
Sweating is the body's mechanism to cool itself. The nervous system automatically triggers sweat glands when your body temperature rises. Sweating also occurs, especially on your palms, when you're nervous.
Primary hyperhidrosis is caused by faulty nerve signals that trigger eccrine sweat glands to become overactive. It usually affects the palms, soles, underarms and sometimes the face.
There is no medical cause for this type of hyperhidrosis. It can run in families.
Secondary hyperhidrosis is caused by an underlying medical condition or by taking certain medications, such as pain relievers, antidepressants, and some diabetes and hormonal medications. This type of hyperhidrosis may cause sweating all over the body. Conditions that might cause it include:
Diabetes
Menopause hot flashes
Thyroid problems
Some types of cancer
Nervous system disorders
Infections
Risk Factors for Hyperhidrosis:
Risk factors for hyperhidrosis include:
Having a blood relative, such as a parent, sibling or grandparent, who sweats heavily
Taking medicines or supplements that cause sweating
Having a medical condition that causes sweating
Complications for Hyperhidrosis:
Complications of hyperhidrosis include:
Infections. People who sweat a lot are more prone to skin infections.
Social and emotional effects. Having clammy or dripping hands and sweat-soaked clothes can be embarrassing. Your condition may affect your pursuit of work and educational goals.
There are no preventive measures available for Hyperhidrosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis
Overview of Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis:
Hyperoxaluria (hi-pur-ok-suh-LU-ree-uh) happens when you have too much oxalate in your urine. Oxalate is a natural chemical the body makes. It's also found in some foods. But too much oxalate in the urine can cause serious problems.
Hyperoxaluria can be caused by a change in a gene, an intestine disease or eating too many foods that are high in oxalate. The long-term health of your kidneys depends on finding hyperoxaluria early and getting it treated quickly.
Oxalosis (ok-suh-LOW-sis) happens after the kidneys stop working well in people who have primary and intestine-related causes of hyperoxaluria. Too much oxalate collects in the blood. This can lead to oxalate buildups in blood vessels, bones and organs.
There are no home remedies available for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis :
Often, the first sign of hyperoxaluria is a kidney stone. Kidney stone symptoms can include:
Sharp pain in the back, side, lower stomach area or groin.
Urine that looks pink, red or brown due to blood.
Frequent urge to pee, also called urination.
Pain when peeing.
Not being able to urinate or peeing only a small amount.
Chills, fever, upset stomach or vomiting.
Causes for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis :
Hyperoxaluria happens when too much of a chemical called oxalate builds up in the urine. There are different types of hyperoxaluria:
Primary hyperoxaluria. This type is a rare inherited disease, which means that it's passed down in families. It's caused by changes in a gene. With primary hyperoxaluria, the liver doesn't make enough of a certain protein that prevents too much oxalate from being made. Or the protein doesn't work as it should. The body gets rid of excess oxalate through the kidneys, in urine. The extra oxalate can combine with calcium to form kidney stones and crystals. These can damage the kidneys and cause them to stop working.
With primary hyperoxaluria, kidney stones form early. They most often cause symptoms from childhood through age 20. The kidneys of many people with primary hyperoxaluria stop working well by early to middle adulthood. But kidney failure can happen even in babies with this disease. Others with primary hyperoxaluria may never have kidney failure.
Enteric hyperoxaluria. Some intestine problems cause the body to absorb more oxalate from foods. This can then increase the amount of oxalate in the urine. Crohn's disease is one intestine problem that can lead to enteric hyperoxaluria. Another is short bowel syndrome, which can happen when parts of the small intestine are removed during surgery.
Other health problems make it hard for the small intestine to absorb fats from food. If this happens, it might leave oxalate more available for the gut to absorb. Usually, oxalate combines with calcium in the gut and exits the body through stools. But when there is increased fat in the gut, calcium binds to the fat instead. This allows oxalate to be free in the gut and absorbed in the bloodstream. It's then filtered by the kidneys. Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery also can lead to trouble absorbing fat in the gut, which raises the risk of hyperoxaluria.
Hyperoxaluria tied to eating foods with lots of oxalate. Eating large amounts of foods high in oxalate can raise your risk of hyperoxaluria or kidney stones. These foods include nuts, chocolate, brewed tea, spinach, potatoes, beets and rhubarb. It's important to stay away from high-oxalate foods if you have diet-related or enteric hyperoxaluria. Your doctor also may tell you to limit these foods if you have primary hyperoxaluria.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis in the knowledge baseComplications for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis:
Without treatment, primary hyperoxaluria can damage the kidneys. Over time the kidneys may stop working. This is called kidney failure. For some people, this is the first sign of the disease.
Symptoms of kidney failure include:
Peeing less than usual or not peeing at all.
Feeling ill and tired.
Not feeling hungry.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Pale, ashen skin or other changes to skin color tied to having a low number of red blood cells, also called anemia.
Swelling of hands and feet.
Oxalosis happens if you have primary or enteric hyperoxaluria and your kidneys stop working well enough. The body can no longer get rid of the extra oxalate, so the oxalate starts building up. First it builds up in the blood, then in the eyes, bones, skin, muscles, blood vessels, heart and other organs.
Oxalosis can cause many health problems outside the kidneys in its late stages. These include:
Bone disease.
Anemia.
Skin ulcers.
Heart and eye problems.
In children, serious problems developing and growing.
There are no preventive measures available for Hyperoxaluria and oxalosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid)
Overview of Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid):
Hyperthyroidism happens when the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone. This condition also is called overactive thyroid. Hyperthyroidism speeds up the body's metabolism. That can cause many symptoms, such as weight loss, hand tremors, and rapid or irregular heartbeat.
Several treatments are available for hyperthyroidism. Anti-thyroid medicines and radioiodine can be used to slow the amount of hormones the thyroid gland makes. Sometimes, hyperthyroidism treatment includes surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid gland. In some cases, depending on what's causing it, hyperthyroidism may improve without medication or other treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) :
Hyperthyroidism sometimes looks like other health problems. That can make it hard to diagnose. It can cause many symptoms, including:
Losing weight without trying.
Fast heartbeat, a condition called tachycardia.
Irregular heartbeat, also called arrhythmia.
Pounding of the heart, sometimes called heart palpitations.
Increased hunger.
Nervousness, anxiety and irritability.
Tremor, usually a small trembling in the hands and fingers.
Sweating.
Changes in menstrual cycles.
Increased sensitivity to heat.
Changes in bowel patterns, especially more-frequent bowel movements.
Enlarged thyroid gland, sometimes called a goiter, which may appear as a swelling at the base of the neck.
Tiredness.
Muscle weakness.
Sleep problems.
Warm, moist skin.
Thinning skin.
Fine, brittle hair.
Older adults are more likely to have symptoms that are hard to notice. These symptoms may include an irregular heartbeat, weight loss, depression, and feeling weak or tired during ordinary activities.
Causes for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) :
Hyperthyroidism can be caused by several medical conditions that affect the thyroid gland. The thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland at the base of the neck. It has a big impact on the body. Every part of metabolism is controlled by hormones that the thyroid gland makes.
The thyroid gland produces two main hormones: thyroxine (T-4) and triiodothyronine (T-3). These hormones affect every cell in the body. They support the rate at which the body uses fats and carbohydrates. They help control body temperature. They have an effect on heart rate. And they help control how much protein the body makes.
Hyperthyroidism happens when the thyroid gland puts too much of those thyroid hormones into the bloodstream. Conditions that can lead to hyperthyroidism include:
Graves' disease. Graves' disease is an autoimmune disorder that causes the immune system to attack the thyroid gland. That prompts the thyroid to make too much thyroid hormone. Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism.
Overactive thyroid nodules. This condition also is called toxic adenoma, toxic multinodular goiter and Plummer disease. This form of hyperthyroidism happens when a thyroid adenoma makes too much thyroid hormone. An adenoma is a part of the gland that is walled off from the rest of the gland. It forms noncancerous lumps that can make the thyroid bigger than usual.
Thyroiditis. This condition happens when the thyroid gland becomes inflamed. In some cases, it's due to an autoimmune disorder. In others, the reason for it is unclear. The inflammation can cause extra thyroid hormone stored in the thyroid gland to leak into the bloodstream and cause symptoms of hyperthyroidism.
Risk Factors for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid):
Risk factors for hyperthyroidism include:
A family history of thyroid disease, particularly Graves' disease.
A personal history of certain chronic illnesses, including pernicious anemia and primary adrenal insufficiency.
A recent pregnancy, which raises the risk of developing thyroiditis. This can lead to hyperthyroidism.
Complications for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid):
Hyperthyroidism can lead to the following complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
Overview of Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy:
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a disease in which the heart muscle becomes thickened, also called hypertrophied. The thickened heart muscle can make it harder for the heart to pump blood.
Many people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy don't realize they have it. That's because they have few, if any, symptoms. But in a small number of people with HCM, the thickened heart muscle can cause serious symptoms. These include shortness of breath and chest pain. Some people with HCM have changes in the heart's electrical system. These changes can result in life-threatening irregular heartbeats or sudden death.
There are no home remedies available for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy :
Symptoms of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can include one or more of the following:
Chest pain, especially during exercise.
Fainting, especially during or just after exercise or other physical activity.
Sensation of fast, fluttering or pounding heartbeats called palpitations.
Shortness of breath, especially during exercise.
Causes for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy :
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy usually is caused by changes in genes that cause the heart muscle to thicken.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy typically affects the wall between the two bottom chambers of the heart. This wall is called the septum. The chambers are called the ventricles. The thickened wall might block blood flow out of the heart. This is called obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
If there's no significant blocking of blood flow, the condition is called nonobstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. But the heart's main pumping chamber, called the left ventricle, might stiffen. This makes it hard for the heart to relax. The stiffness also lessens the amount of blood the ventricle can hold and send to the body with each heartbeat.
Heart muscle cells also become arranged differently in people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This is called myofiber disarray. It can trigger irregular heartbeats in some people.
Risk Factors for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy:
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy usually is passed down through families. That means it's inherited. People with one parent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have a 50% chance of having the gene change that causes the disease.
Parents, children, or brothers or sisters of a person with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy should ask their healthcare team about screening tests for the disease.
Complications for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy:
Complications of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can include:
Atrial fibrillation (AFib). A thickened heart muscle and changes in the structure of heart cells can trigger an irregular and often very rapid heartbeat called AFib. AFib also raises the risk of blood clots, which can travel to the brain and cause a stroke.
Blocked blood flow. In many people, the thickened heart muscle blocks the blood flow leaving the heart. This can cause shortness of breath with activity, chest pain, dizziness and fainting spells.
Mitral valve disease. If the thickened heart muscle blocks the blood flow leaving the heart, the valve between the left heart chambers might not close properly. That valve is called the mitral valve. If it doesn't close properly, blood can leak backward into the left upper chamber. This is a condition called mitral valve regurgitation. It might make hypertrophic cardiomyopathy symptoms worse.
Dilated cardiomyopathy. In a small number of people with HCM, the thickened heart muscle becomes weak and doesn't work well. The condition tends to start in the left lower heart chamber. The chamber becomes larger. The heart pumps with less force.
Heart failure. Over time, the thickened heart muscle can become too stiff to fill the heart with blood. As a result, the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs.
Fainting, also called syncope. An irregular heartbeat or blockage of blood flow can sometimes cause fainting. Unexplained fainting can be related to sudden cardiac death, especially if it's happened recently and in a young person.
Sudden cardiac death. Rarely, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can cause heart-related sudden death in people of all ages. Many people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy don't realize they have it. As a result, sudden cardiac death might be the first sign of the condition. It can happen in young people who seem healthy, including high school athletes and other young, active adults.
Preventions for Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy
There is no known way to prevent hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). It's important to find the condition with tests as early as possible to guide treatment and prevent complications.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy usually is passed down in families. If you have a parent, brother, sister or child with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, ask your healthcare team if genetic screening is right for you. But not everyone with HCM has a gene change that tests can detect. Also, some insurance companies may not cover genetic testing.
If genetic testing isn't done, or if the results aren't helpful, screening may be done with repeated echocardiograms. Echocardiograms use sound waves to make pictures of the heart.
For people who have a family member with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy:
Echocardiogram screenings are recommended starting at about age 12.
Screening with echocardiograms should continue every 1 to 3 years through ages 18 to 21.
After that, the screenings can be done every five years through adulthood.
You may need to have an echocardiogram more often based on your overall health and healthcare team's preference.
Condition name:Hypoglycemia
Overview of Hypoglycemia:
Hypoglycemia is a condition in which your blood sugar (glucose) level is lower than the standard range. Glucose is your body's main energy source.
Hypoglycemia is often related to diabetes treatment. But other drugs and a variety of conditions — many rare — can cause low blood sugar in people who don't have diabetes.
Hypoglycemia needs immediate treatment. For many people, a fasting blood sugar of 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or 3.9 millimoles per liter (mmol/L), or below should serve as an alert for hypoglycemia. But your numbers might be different. Ask your health care provider.
Treatment involves quickly getting your blood sugar back to within the standard range either with a high-sugar food or drink or with medication. Long-term treatment requires identifying and treating the cause of hypoglycemia.
There are no home remedies available for Hypoglycemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypoglycemia :
If blood sugar levels become too low, hypoglycemia signs and symptoms can include:
Looking pale
Shakiness
Sweating
Headache
Hunger or nausea
An irregular or fast heartbeat
Fatigue
Irritability or anxiety
Difficulty concentrating
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Tingling or numbness of the lips, tongue or cheek
As hypoglycemia worsens, signs and symptoms can include:
Confusion, unusual behavior or both, such as the inability to complete routine tasks
Loss of coordination
Slurred speech
Blurry vision or tunnel vision
Nightmares, if asleep
Severe hypoglycemia may cause:
Unresponsiveness (loss of consciousness)
Seizures
Causes for Hypoglycemia :
Hypoglycemia occurs when your blood sugar (glucose) level falls too low for bodily functions to continue. There are several reasons why this can happen. The most common reason for low blood sugar is a side effect of medications used to treat diabetes.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hypoglycemia in the knowledge baseComplications for Hypoglycemia:
Untreated hypoglycemia can lead to:
Seizure
Coma
Death
Hypoglycemia can also cause:
Dizziness and weakness
Falls
Injuries
Motor vehicle accidents
Greater risk of dementia in older adults
There are no preventive measures available for Hypoglycemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hyponatremia
Overview of Hyponatremia:
Hyponatremia occurs when the concentration of sodium in your blood is abnormally low. Sodium is an electrolyte, and it helps regulate the amount of water that's in and around your cells.
In hyponatremia, one or more factors — ranging from an underlying medical condition to drinking too much water — cause the sodium in your body to become diluted. When this happens, your body's water levels rise, and your cells begin to swell. This swelling can cause many health problems, from mild to life-threatening.
Hyponatremia treatment is aimed at resolving the underlying condition. Depending on the cause of hyponatremia, you may simply need to cut back on how much you drink. In other cases of hyponatremia, you may need intravenous electrolyte solutions and medications.
There are no home remedies available for Hyponatremia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hyponatremia :
Hyponatremia signs and symptoms may include:
Nausea and vomiting
Headache
Confusion
Loss of energy, drowsiness and fatigue
Restlessness and irritability
Muscle weakness, spasms or cramps
Seizures
Coma
Causes for Hyponatremia :
Sodium plays a key role in your body. It helps maintain normal blood pressure, supports the work of your nerves and muscles, and regulates your body's fluid balance.
A normal blood sodium level is between 135 and 145 milliequivalents per liter (mEq/L). Hyponatremia occurs when the sodium in your blood falls below 135 mEq/L.
Many possible conditions and lifestyle factors can lead to hyponatremia, including:
Certain medications. Some medications, such as some water pills (diuretics), antidepressants and pain medications, can interfere with the normal hormonal and kidney processes that keep sodium concentrations within the healthy normal range.
Heart, kidney and liver problems. Congestive heart failure and certain diseases affecting the kidneys or liver can cause fluids to accumulate in your body, which dilutes the sodium in your body, lowering the overall level.
Syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone (SIADH). In this condition, high levels of the anti-diuretic hormone (ADH) are produced, causing your body to retain water instead of excreting it normally in your urine.
Chronic, severe vomiting or diarrhea and other causes of dehydration. This causes your body to lose electrolytes, such as sodium, and also increases ADH levels.
Drinking too much water. Drinking excessive amounts of water can cause low sodium by overwhelming the kidneys' ability to excrete water. Because you lose sodium through sweat, drinking too much water during endurance activities, such as marathons and triathlons, can also dilute the sodium content of your blood.
Hormonal changes. Adrenal gland insufficiency (Addison's disease) affects your adrenal glands' ability to produce hormones that help maintain your body's balance of sodium, potassium and water. Low levels of thyroid hormone also can cause a low blood-sodium level.
The recreational drug Ecstasy. This amphetamine increases the risk of severe and even fatal cases of hyponatremia.
Risk Factors for Hyponatremia:
The following factors may increase your risk of hyponatremia:
Age. Older adults may have more contributing factors for hyponatremia, including age-related changes, taking certain medications and a greater likelihood of developing a chronic disease that alters the body's sodium balance.
Certain drugs. Medications that increase your risk of hyponatremia include thiazide diuretics as well as some antidepressants and pain medications. In addition, the recreational drug Ecstasy has been linked to fatal cases of hyponatremia.
Conditions that decrease your body's water excretion. Medical conditions that may increase your risk of hyponatremia include kidney disease, syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone (SIADH) and heart failure, among others.
Intensive physical activities. People who drink too much water while taking part in marathons, ultramarathons, triathlons and other long-distance, high-intensity activities are at an increased risk of hyponatremia.
Complications for Hyponatremia:
In chronic hyponatremia, sodium levels drop gradually over 48 hours or longer — and symptoms and complications are typically more moderate.
In acute hyponatremia, sodium levels drop rapidly — resulting in potentially dangerous effects, such as rapid brain swelling, which can result in a coma and death.
Premenopausal women appear to be at the greatest risk of hyponatremia-related brain damage. This may be related to the effect of women's sex hormones on the body's ability to balance sodium levels.
Preventions for Hyponatremia
The following measures may help you prevent hyponatremia:
Treat associated conditions. Getting treatment for conditions that contribute to hyponatremia, such as adrenal gland insufficiency, can help prevent low blood sodium.
Educate yourself. If you have a medical condition that increases your risk of hyponatremia or you take diuretic medications, be aware of the signs and symptoms of low blood sodium. Always talk with your doctor about the risks of a new medication.
Take precautions during high-intensity activities. Athletes should drink only as much fluid as they lose due to sweating during a race. Thirst is generally a good guide to how much water or other fluids you need.
Consider drinking sports beverages during demanding activities. Ask your doctor about replacing water with sports beverages that contain electrolytes when participating in endurance events such as marathons, triathlons and other demanding activities.
Drink water in moderation. Drinking water is vital for your health, so make sure you drink enough fluids. But don't overdo it. Thirst and the color of your urine are usually the best indications of how much water you need. If you're not thirsty and your urine is pale yellow, you are likely getting enough water.
Condition name:Hypopituitarism
Overview of Hypopituitarism:
Hypopituitarism is a rare condition in which the pituitary gland doesn't make one or more hormones or doesn't make enough hormones.
The pituitary gland is a kidney-bean-sized gland at the base of your brain. It is part of the body's system of glands that make hormones, called the endocrine system. The pituitary gland makes several hormones. They act on nearly every part of the body.
Hypopituitarism is when there isn't enough of one or more of the pituitary hormones. This lack of hormones, called a deficiency, can affect how the body works in many ways. These include growth, blood pressure and the ability to have children, among others. Symptoms depend on which hormones are missing.
People who have hypopituitarism usually need to take medicines for the rest of their lives. These medicines replace the missing hormones, which helps control symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Hypopituitarism in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypopituitarism :
The symptoms of hypopituitarism usually start slowly and get worse over time. They might not be noticed for months or even years. But for some people, symptoms start suddenly.
Symptoms of hypopituitarism vary from person to person. Symptoms depend on what hormones are missing and how little of the hormone is being made. There might be more than one hormone that's low. A second hormone deficiency might increase the symptoms of the first one. Or sometimes, it might hide those symptoms.
Causes for Hypopituitarism :
Hypopituitarism has a number of causes. One common cause is a tumor of the pituitary gland. As a pituitary tumor grows, it can press on and damage pituitary tissue. This disrupts the pituitary gland's ability to make hormones. A tumor also can press on the optic nerves, causing vision problems.
Other potential causes of damage to the pituitary gland that may lead to hypopituitarism include:
Lack of blood flow to the brain or pituitary gland, known as a stroke, or bleeding, called hemorrhage, into the brain or pituitary gland.
Certain medicines, such as narcotics, high-dose steroids or certain cancer medicines called checkpoint inhibitors.
Swelling, known as inflammation, of the pituitary gland caused by an unusual immune system response, called hypophysitis.
Infections of the brain, such as meningitis, or infections that can spread to the brain, such as tuberculosis or syphilis.
Significant blood loss during childbirth, which can damage the front part of the pituitary gland. This condition is known as Sheehan syndrome or postpartum pituitary necrosis.
In some cases, a change in a gene causes hypopituitarism. That change is heredity, which means it is passed down in families. The genetic change affects the pituitary gland's ability to make one or more of its hormones. This often starts at birth or in early childhood.
Tumors or diseases of a part of the brain that's just above the pituitary, called the hypothalamus, also can cause hypopituitarism. The hypothalamus makes hormones that affect how the pituitary gland works.
Sometimes, the cause of hypopituitarism isn't known.
There are no Risk Factors available for Hypopituitarism in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Hypopituitarism in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Hypopituitarism in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
Overview of Hypoplastic left heart syndrome:
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) is a rare heart condition that a child is born with. That means it's a congenital heart defect. In this condition, the left side of the heart doesn't develop fully and is too small. So it can't pump blood well. Instead, the right side of the heart must pump blood to the lungs and to the rest of the body.
Treatment for hypoplastic left heart syndrome may include medicines, heart surgery or a heart transplant. Advances in care have improved the outlook for babies born with HLHS.
There are no home remedies available for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome :
Babies born with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) usually are very sick soon after birth. Symptoms of HLHS include:
Blue or gray skin, lips or fingernails. Depending on skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Rapid, difficult breathing.
Poor feeding.
Cold hands and feet.
Weak pulse.
Being more drowsy or less active than is typical for most babies.
Without treatment, a baby with this condition may go into shock. Symptoms of shock include:
Cool, clammy skin that can be pale or lips that can be blue or gray.
A weak and rapid pulse.
Breathing that may be slow and shallow or very rapid.
Dull eyes that seem to stare.
Causes for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome :
Hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) happens in the womb when a baby's heart develops. The cause isn't known. Gene changes may play a role.
In hypoplastic left heart syndrome, the left side of the heart hasn't grown enough so it does not develop fully. It can't properly send blood to the body. In HLHS, the following areas of the heart are too small:
The lower left heart chamber, called the left ventricle.
The body's main artery, called the aorta.
The heart valves on the left side of the heart, called the aortic and mitral valves.
After birth, the right side of a baby's heart usually pumps blood both to the lungs and to the rest of the body. The blood passes through an opening called the ductus arteriosus. This opening, also called a vessel, connects the pulmonary artery directly to the aorta. The oxygen-rich blood goes back to the right side of the heart through a natural opening between the right chambers of the heart. The opening is called the foramen ovale.
The ductus arteriosus usually closes after the first day or two of life. When that happens, the right side of the heart has no way to pump blood to the body. The left side of the heart takes over this job.
But in babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome, the left side can't pump blood well. So they need medicine to keep these connections open and keep blood flowing to the body until they have heart surgery.
Risk Factors for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome:
People who have a child with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) have a higher risk of having another baby with this or a similar condition.
There are no other clear risk factors for hypoplastic left heart syndrome.
Complications for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome:
With proper treatment, many babies with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS) survive. But they do need many surgeries and can have less energy and other challenges. Complications of HLHS may include:
Getting tired more easily during sports or other exercises.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Fluid buildup, called edema, in the lungs, stomach area, legs and feet.
Not growing well.
Developmental conditions related to the brain and nervous system.
Need for more heart surgery or a heart transplant.
Preventions for Hypoplastic left heart syndrome
There's no way to prevent hypoplastic left heart syndrome. If you were born with a heart condition, talk with a heart doctor and genetic counselor before getting pregnant.
Condition name:Hypospadias
Overview of Hypospadias:
Hypospadias (hi-poe-SPAY-dee-us) is a condition that happens as the unborn baby, called a fetus, develops in the womb. The opening of the urethra is on the underside of the penis instead of at the tip. The urethra is the tube that drains urine from the bladder and out of the body.
Hypospadias is common and doesn't cause difficulty in caring for your baby. Surgery usually can create a typical looking penis that works properly. With successful treatment of hypospadias, most men can pass urine properly. And with successful hypospadias treatment, the condition won't block sperm from fertilizing an egg.
There are no home remedies available for Hypospadias in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypospadias :
In hypospadias, the opening of the urethra is on the underside of the penis instead of at the tip. In most cases, the opening of the urethra is within the head of the penis. Less often, the opening is at the middle or the base of the penis. Rarely, the opening is in or beneath the scrotum.
Symptoms of hypospadias may include:
Opening of the urethra at a place other than the tip of the penis.
Downward curve of the penis. This condition is called chordee.
Hooded appearance of the penis because only the top half of the penis is covered by foreskin.
Differences in spraying when passing urine.
Causes for Hypospadias :
Hypospadias is a condition that is present at birth. As the penis develops in a male unborn baby, certain hormones stimulate how the urethra and foreskin form. Hypospadias results from a change in the action of these hormones. This keeps the two sides of the urethral folds from joining completely. The location of the urethral opening depends on when the joining stopped.
In most cases, the exact cause of hypospadias is not known. Sometimes, hypospadias is caused by gene changes, but environment also may play a role.
Risk Factors for Hypospadias:
Although the cause of hypospadias is usually not known, these factors may be linked with the condition:
Family history. This condition is more common in babies with a family history of hypospadias.
Genetics. Some gene changes may play a role in changing the hormones that stimulate how the male genitals develop.
Maternal age over 35. Some research suggests that there may be a higher risk of hypospadias in male babies born to women older than 35 years.
Exposure to certain substances during pregnancy. A link between hypospadias and a mother's exposure to certain hormones or certain compounds such as pesticides or industrial chemicals is being looked at. But more research is needed to confirm this link.
Complications for Hypospadias:
If hypospadias is not treated, it can result in:
Differences in how the penis looks.
Problems learning to use a toilet.
Unusual curve of the penis with an erection.
Problems releasing sperm from the penis. This release is called an ejaculation.
There are no preventive measures available for Hypospadias in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypothermia
Overview of Hypothermia:
Hypothermia is a condition that occurs when core body temperature drops below 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 degrees Celsius). It is a medical emergency. In hypothermia (hi-poe-THUR-me-uh), the body loses heat faster than it can produce heat, causing a dangerously low body temperature. Regular body temperature is around 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit (37 degrees Celsius).
When body temperature drops, the heart, nervous system and other organs can't work as well as they usually do. Left untreated, hypothermia can cause the heart and respiratory system to fail and eventually can lead to death.
Common causes of hypothermia include exposure to cold weather or immersion in cold water. Treatment for hypothermia includes methods to warm the body back to a regular temperature.
There are no home remedies available for Hypothermia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypothermia :
When the temperature starts to drop, the body can start to shiver. Shivering is the body's attempt to warm itself. It is an automatic defense against cold temperature.
Symptoms of hypothermia include:
Shivering.
Slurred speech or mumbling.
Slow, shallow breathing.
Weak pulse.
Clumsiness or lack of coordination.
Drowsiness or very low energy.
Confusion or memory loss.
Loss of consciousness.
In infants, bright red, cold skin.
People with hypothermia usually aren't aware of their condition. The symptoms often begin gradually. Also, the confused thinking associated with hypothermia prevents self-awareness. The confused thinking also can lead to risk-taking behavior.
Causes for Hypothermia :
Hypothermia occurs when the body loses heat faster than it produces it. The most common causes of hypothermia are exposure to cold-weather conditions or cold water. But prolonged exposure to any environment colder than the body can lead to hypothermia if a person isn't dressed properly or can't control the conditions.
Specific conditions leading to hypothermia include:
Wearing clothes that aren't warm enough for weather conditions.
Staying out in the cold too long.
Being unable to get out of wet clothes or move to a warm, dry location.
Falling into the water, such as in a boating accident.
Living in a house that's too cold, either from poor heating or too much air conditioning.
Risk Factors for Hypothermia:
Risk factors for hypothermia include:
Exhaustion. Fatigue reduces a person's ability to tolerate cold.
Older age. The body's ability to regulate temperature and to sense cold may lessen with age. And some older adults may not be able to tell someone when they are cold or to move to a warm location if they do feel cold.
Very young age. Children lose heat faster than adults do. Children also may ignore the cold because they're having too much fun to think about it. They may not have the judgment to dress properly in cold weather or to get out of the cold when they should.
Mental conditions. People with a mental illness, dementia or other conditions that interfere with judgment may not dress properly for the weather or understand the risk of cold weather. People with dementia may wander from home or get lost easily, making them more likely to be stranded outside in cold or wet weather.
Alcohol and drug use. Alcohol may make the body feel warm inside, but it causes blood vessels to expand. As a result, the surface of the skin loses heat more rapidly. Alcohol also reduces the body's natural shivering response.
In addition, the use of alcohol or recreational drugs can affect judgment about the need to get inside or wear warm clothes in cold-weather conditions. A person who is intoxicated and passes out in cold weather is likely to develop hypothermia.
Certain medical conditions. Some health disorders affect the body's ability to regulate body temperature. Examples include an underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism; poor nutrition or anorexia nervosa; diabetes; stroke; severe arthritis; Parkinson's disease; trauma; and spinal cord injuries.
Medicines. Some drugs can change the body's ability to regulate its temperature. Examples include certain antidepressants, antipsychotics, narcotic pain medicines and sedatives.
Complications for Hypothermia:
People who develop hypothermia because of exposure to cold weather or cold water are also vulnerable to other cold-related injuries, including:
Frostbite, which is when skin and underlying tissues become frozen.
Gangrene, which is when body tissue decays and dies because blood flow is blocked.
There are no preventive measures available for Hypothermia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid)
Overview of Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid):
Hypothyroidism happens when the thyroid gland doesn't make enough thyroid hormone. This condition also is called underactive thyroid. Hypothyroidism may not cause noticeable symptoms in its early stages. Over time, hypothyroidism that isn't treated can lead to other health problems, such as high cholesterol and heart problems.
Blood tests are used to diagnose hypothyroidism. Treatment with thyroid hormone medicine usually is simple, safe and effective once you and your health care provider find the right dosage for you.
There are no home remedies available for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) :
The symptoms of hypothyroidism depend on the severity of the condition. Problems tend to develop slowly, often over several years.
At first, you may barely notice the symptoms of hypothyroidism, such as fatigue and weight gain. Or you may think they are just part of getting older. But as your metabolism continues to slow, you may develop more-obvious problems.
Hypothyroidism symptoms may include:
Tiredness.
More sensitivity to cold.
Constipation.
Dry skin.
Weight gain.
Puffy face.
Hoarse voice.
Coarse hair and skin.
Muscle weakness.
Muscle aches, tenderness and stiffness.
Menstrual cycles that are heavier than usual or irregular.
Thinning hair.
Slowed heart rate, also called bradycardia.
Depression.
Memory problems.
Causes for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) :
The thyroid is a small, butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of the neck, just below the Adam's apple. The thyroid gland makes two main hormones: thyroxine (T-4) and triiodothyronine (T-3). These hormones affect every cell in the body. They support the rate at which the body uses fats and carbohydrates. They help control body temperature. They have an effect on heart rate. And they help control how much protein the body makes.
Hypothyroidism happens when the thyroid gland doesn't make enough hormones. Conditions or problems that can lead to hypothyroidism include:
Autoimmune disease. The most common cause of hypothyroidism is an autoimmune disease called Hashimoto's disease. Autoimmune diseases happen when the immune system makes antibodies that attack healthy tissues. Sometimes that process involves the thyroid gland and affects its ability to make hormones.
Thyroid surgery. Surgery to remove all or part of the thyroid gland can lower the gland's ability to make thyroid hormones or stop it completely.
Radiation therapy. Radiation used to treat cancers of the head and neck can affect the thyroid gland and lead to hypothyroidism.
Thyroiditis. Thyroiditis happens when the thyroid gland becomes inflamed. This may be due to an infection. Or it can result from an autoimmune disorder or another medical condition affecting the thyroid. Thyroiditis can trigger the thyroid to release all of its stored thyroid hormone at once. That causes a spike in thyroid activity, a condition called hyperthyroidism. Afterward, the thyroid becomes underactive.
Medicine. A number of medicines may lead to hypothyroidism. One such medicine is lithium, which is used to treat some psychiatric disorders. If you're taking medicine, ask your heath care provider about its effect on the thyroid gland.
Less often, hypothyroidism may be caused by:
Problems present at birth. Some babies are born with a thyroid gland that doesn't work correctly. Others are born with no thyroid gland. In most cases, the reason the thyroid gland didn't develop properly is not clear. But some children have an inherited form of a thyroid disorder. Often, infants born with hypothyroidism don't have noticeable symptoms at first. That's one reason why most states require newborn thyroid screening.
Pituitary disorder. A relatively rare cause of hypothyroidism is the failure of the pituitary gland to make enough thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). This is usually because of a noncancerous tumor of the pituitary gland.
Pregnancy. Some people develop hypothyroidism during or after pregnancy. If hypothyroidism happens during pregnancy and isn't treated, it raises the risk of pregnancy loss, premature delivery and preeclampsia. Preeclampsia causes a significant rise in blood pressure during the last three months of pregnancy. Hypothyroidism also can seriously affect the developing fetus.
Not enough iodine. The thyroid gland needs the mineral iodine to make thyroid hormones. Iodine is found mainly in seafood, seaweed, plants grown in iodine-rich soil and iodized salt. Too little iodine can lead to hypothyroidism. Too much iodine can make hypothyroidism worse in people who already have the condition. In some parts of the world, it's common for people not to get enough iodine in their diets. The addition of iodine to table salt has almost eliminated this problem in the United States.
Risk Factors for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid):
Although anyone can develop hypothyroidism, you're at an increased risk if you:
Are a woman.
Have a family history of thyroid disease.
Have an autoimmune disease, such as type 1 diabetes or celiac disease.
Have received treatment for hyperthyroidism.
Received radiation to your neck or upper chest.
Have had thyroid surgery.
Complications for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid):
Hypothyroidism that isn't treated can lead to other health problems, including:
Goiter. Hypothyroidism may cause the thyroid gland to become larger. This condition is called a goiter. A large goiter may cause problems with swallowing or breathing.
Heart problems. Hypothyroidism can lead to a higher risk of heart disease and heart failure. That's mainly because people with an underactive thyroid tend to develop high levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol — the "bad" cholesterol.
Peripheral neuropathy. Hypothyroidism that goes without treatment for a long time can damage the peripheral nerves. These are the nerves that carry information from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. Peripheral neuropathy may cause pain, numbness and tingling in the arms and legs.
Infertility. Low levels of thyroid hormone can interfere with ovulation, which can limit fertility. Some of the causes of hypothyroidism, such as autoimmune disorders, also can harm fertility.
Birth defects. Babies born to people with untreated thyroid disease may have a higher risk of birth defects compared with babies born to mothers who do not have thyroid disease.
Infants with hypothyroidism present at birth that goes untreated are at risk of serious physical and mental development problems. But if the condition is diagnosed within the first few months of life, the chances of typical development are excellent.
Myxedema coma. This rare, life-threatening condition can happen when hypothyroidism goes without treatment for a long time. A myxedema coma may be triggered by sedatives, infection or other stress on the body. Its symptoms include intense cold intolerance and drowsiness, followed by an extreme lack of energy and then unconsciousness. Myxedema coma requires emergency medical treatment.
There are no preventive measures available for Hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Idiopathic hypersomnia
Overview of Idiopathic hypersomnia:
Idiopathic hypersomnia is a condition that causes people to be very sleepy during the day even after a full night of sleep. People with the condition have trouble waking up from sleep. They also may wake up confused and disoriented. Naps typically don't lead to feeling refreshed.
Idiopathic hypersomnia is not common, and the cause of the condition is not known.
The need to sleep can strike at any time, including when driving a car or working. This makes idiopathic hypersomnia potentially dangerous.
The condition often develops slowly over time. Diagnosing idiopathic hypersomnia requires ruling out more common sleep conditions. Treatment aims to control symptoms with medicine.
There are no home remedies available for Idiopathic hypersomnia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Idiopathic hypersomnia :
The main symptom of idiopathic hypersomnia is being very sleepy during the day. Symptoms begin slowly over several weeks or months and may include:
Having a strong need to sleep.
Not being able to stay awake and alert during the day.
Sleeping more than 11 hours at night.
Having trouble waking up in the morning.
Being confused, moving slowly and having trouble with coordination after waking up.
Feeling anxiety after waking up.
People with idiopathic hypersomnia may need to set several loud alarms to wake up in the morning.
People with the condition also may:
Take naps longer than an hour.
Not feel refreshed after naps.
Have trouble with memory and attention.
Rarely, idiopathic hypersomnia can cause someone to fall asleep suddenly during the day.
Some people with idiopathic hypersomnia may experience automatic behavior when they are very sleepy. This can include staring, or they may drive without purpose and later realize that they are miles from home. Automatic behavior also may include writing or saying things that don't make sense. Afterward, people with idiopathic hypersomnia don't remember the behavior.
Causes for Idiopathic hypersomnia :
The cause of idiopathic hypersomnia is not known.
Risk Factors for Idiopathic hypersomnia:
Experts don't know what causes idiopathic hypersomnia, so risk factors are not known. But symptoms usually appear at a younger age, between ages 10 and 30. And women may be more likely to have idiopathic hypersomnia than are men.
There are no Complications available for Idiopathic hypersomnia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Idiopathic hypersomnia in the knowledge baseCondition name:IgA nephropathy (Berger disease)
Overview of IgA nephropathy (Berger disease):
IgA nephropathy (nuh-FROP-uh-thee), also known as Berger disease, is a kidney disease. It happens when a germ-fighting protein called immunoglobulin A (IgA) builds up in the kidneys. This causes a type of swelling called inflammation that, over time, can make it harder for the kidneys to filter waste from the blood.
IgA nephropathy often becomes worse slowly over years. But the course of the disease varies from person to person. Some people leak blood into their urine without having other problems. Others might have complications such as losing kidney function and spilling protein into the urine. Still others develop kidney failure, which means the kidneys stop working well enough to filter the body's waste on their own.
There's no cure for IgA nephropathy, but medicines can slow how quickly it becomes worse. Some people need treatment to lower inflammation, reduce the spilling of protein into the urine and prevent the kidneys from failing. Such treatments may help the disease become not active, a state called remission. Keeping blood pressure under control and lowering cholesterol also slow the disease.
Home Remedies for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease):
To help keep your kidneys healthier:
Take steps to lower your blood pressure. This can help slow kidney damage from IgA nephropathy. Start with some healthy lifestyle changes. Limit how much sodium and fat you eat. Lose any extra weight. Get regular exercise. And if you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. Also take your blood pressure medicines as prescribed.
Keep track of your blood pressure at home. If your health care team asks you to do this, write down each blood pressure reading. Then bring the record with you to checkups.
Eat less protein. Ask your doctor if you should cut back on protein. This may help slow IgA nephropathy from becoming worse and protect your kidneys.
Symptoms for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease) :
IgA nephropathy often doesn't cause symptoms early on. You might not notice any health effects for 10 years or more. Sometimes, routine medical tests find signs of the disease, such as protein and red blood cells in the urine that are seen under a microscope.
When IgA nephropathy causes symptoms, they might include:
Cola- or tea-colored urine caused by blood. You might notice these color changes after a cold, sore throat or respiratory infection.
Blood that can be seen in the urine.
Foamy urine from protein leaking into the urine. This is called proteinuria.
Pain on one or both sides of the back below the ribs.
Swelling in the hands and feet called edema.
High blood pressure.
Weakness and tiredness.
If the disease leads to kidney failure, symptoms may include:
Rashes and itchy skin.
Muscle cramps.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Less appetite.
Metallic taste in the mouth.
Confusion.
Kidney failure is life-threatening without treatment. But dialysis or a kidney transplant can help people live for many more years.
Causes for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease) :
The kidneys are two bean-shaped, fist-sized organs located at the small of the back, one on each side of the spine. Each kidney contains tiny blood vessels called glomeruli. These vessels filter waste, extra water and other substances from the blood. Then the filtered blood goes back into the bloodstream. The waste products pass into the bladder and out of the body in urine.
Immunoglobulin A (IgA) is a type of protein called an antibody. The immune system makes IgA to help attack germs and fight infections. But with IgA nephropathy, this protein collects in the glomeruli. This causes inflammation and affects their filtering ability over time.
Researchers don't know exactly what causes IgA to build up in the kidneys. But the following things might be linked with it:
Genes. IgA nephropathy is more common in some families and in certain ethnic groups, such as people of Asian and European descent.
Liver diseases. These include scarring of the liver called cirrhosis and chronic hepatitis B and C infections.
Celiac disease. Eating gluten, a protein found in most grains, triggers this digestive condition.
Infections. These include HIV and some bacterial infections.
Risk Factors for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease):
The exact cause of IgA nephropathy is unknown. But these factors might raise the risk of getting it:
Sex. In North America and Western Europe, IgA nephropathy affects at least twice as many men as it does women.
Ethnicity. IgA nephropathy is more common in white people and people of Asian descent than it is in Black people.
Age. IgA nephropathy most often develops between the mid-teens and mid-30s.
Family history. IgA nephropathy appears to run in some families.
Complications for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease):
The course of IgA nephropathy varies from person to person. Some people have the disease for years with few or no problems. Many don't get diagnosed. Other people develop one or more of the following complications:
High blood pressure. Damage to the kidneys from IgA buildup can raise blood pressure. And high blood pressure can do more damage to the kidneys.
High cholesterol. High levels of cholesterol can raise the risk of a heart attack.
Acute kidney failure. If the kidneys can't filter blood well enough due to buildup of IgA, levels of waste products rise quickly in the blood. And if kidney function gets worse very quickly, health care professionals may use the term rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis.
Chronic kidney disease. IgA nephropathy can cause the kidneys to stop working over time. Then a treatment called dialysis or a kidney transplant is needed to live.
Nephrotic syndrome. This is a group of problems that can be caused by damage to the glomeruli. The problems can include high urine protein levels, low blood protein levels, high cholesterol and lipids, and swelling of the eyelids, feet and stomach area.
Preventions for IgA nephropathy (Berger disease)
You can't prevent IgA nephropathy. Talk with your doctor if you have a family history of the disease. Ask what you can do to keep your kidneys healthy. For example, it helps to lower high blood pressure and keep cholesterol at healthy levels.
Condition name:Illness anxiety disorder
Overview of Illness anxiety disorder:
Illness anxiety disorder, sometimes called hypochondriasis or health anxiety, is worrying excessively that you are or may become seriously ill. You may have no physical symptoms. Or you may believe that normal body sensations or minor symptoms are signs of severe illness, even though a thorough medical exam doesn't reveal a serious medical condition.
You may experience extreme anxiety that body sensations, such as muscle twitching or fatigue, are associated with a specific, serious illness. This excessive anxiety — rather than the physical symptom itself — results in severe distress that can disrupt your life.
Illness anxiety disorder is a long-term condition that can fluctuate in severity. It may increase with age or during times of stress. But psychological counseling (psychotherapy) and sometimes medication can help ease your worries.
Home Remedies for Illness anxiety disorder:
In addition to profession treatment for illness anxiety disorder, these self-care steps can help:
Work with your provider. Work with your primary care provider or mental health professional to determine a regular schedule for visits to discuss your concerns and build a trusting relationship. Discuss setting reasonable limits on tests, evaluations and specialist referrals. Avoid seeking advice from multiple doctors or emergency room visits that can make your care harder to coordinate and may subject you to duplicate testing.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. Learning stress management and relaxation methods, such as progressive muscle relaxation, may help reduce anxiety.
Get physically active. A graduated activity program may have a calming effect on your mood, reduce your anxiety and help improve your physical functioning.
Participate in activities. Staying involved in your work, as well as social and family activities, can provide you with support.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. Substance use can make your care more difficult. Talk to your primary care provider if you need help quitting.
Avoid searching the internet for possible diseases. The vast amount of health information that may or may not be related to your situation can cause confusion and anxiety. If you have symptoms that concern you, talk to your primary care provider at your next scheduled appointment.
Symptoms for Illness anxiety disorder :
Symptoms of illness anxiety disorder involve preoccupation with the idea that you're seriously ill, based on normal body sensations (such as a noisy stomach) or minor signs (such as a minor rash). Signs and symptoms may include:
Being preoccupied with having or getting a serious disease or health condition
Worrying that minor symptoms or body sensations mean you have a serious illness
Being easily alarmed about your health status
Finding little or no reassurance from doctor visits or negative test results
Worrying excessively about a specific medical condition or your risk of developing a medical condition because it runs in your family
Having so much distress about possible illnesses that it's hard for you to function
Repeatedly checking your body for signs of illness or disease
Frequently making medical appointments for reassurance — or avoiding medical care for fear of being diagnosed with a serious illness
Avoiding people, places or activities for fear of health risks
Constantly talking about your health and possible illnesses
Frequently searching the internet for causes of symptoms or possible illnesses
Causes for Illness anxiety disorder :
The exact cause of illness anxiety disorder isn't clear, but these factors may play a role:
Beliefs. You may have a difficult time tolerating uncertainty over uncomfortable or unusual body sensations. This could lead you to misinterpret that all body sensations are serious, so you search for evidence to confirm that you have a serious disease.
Family. You may be more likely to have health anxiety if you had parents who worried too much about their own health or your health.
Past experience. You may have had experience with serious illness in childhood, so physical sensations may be frightening to you.
Risk Factors for Illness anxiety disorder:
Illness anxiety disorder usually begins in early or middle adulthood and may get worse with age. Often for older individuals, health-related anxiety may focus on the fear of losing their memory.
Risk factors for illness anxiety disorder may include:
A time of major life stress
Threat of a serious illness that turns out not to be serious
History of abuse as a child
A serious childhood illness or a parent with a serious illness
Personality traits, such as having a tendency toward being a worrier
Excessive health-related internet use
Complications for Illness anxiety disorder:
Illness anxiety disorder may be associated with:
Relationship or family problems because excessive worrying can frustrate others
Work-related performance problems or excessive absences
Problems functioning in daily life, possibly even resulting in disability
Financial problems due to excessive health care visits and medical bills
Having another mental health disorder, such as somatic symptom disorder, other anxiety disorders, depression or a personality disorder
Preventions for Illness anxiety disorder
Little is known about how to prevent illness anxiety disorder, but these suggestions may help.
If you have problems with anxiety, seek professional advice as soon as possible to help stop symptoms from getting worse and impairing your quality of life.
Learn to recognize when you're stressed and how this affects your body — and regularly practice stress management and relaxation techniques.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of symptoms.
Condition name:Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP)
Overview of Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP):
Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is an illness that can lead to bruising and bleeding. Low levels of the cells that help blood clot, also known as platelets, most often cause the bleeding.
Once known as idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, ITP can cause purple bruises. It also can cause tiny reddish-purple dots on the skin that look like a rash.
Children can get ITP after a virus. They most often get better without treatment. In adults, the illness often lasts months or years.
People with ITP who aren't bleeding and whose platelet count isn't too low might not need treatment. For worse symptoms, treatment might include medicines to raise platelet count or surgery to remove the spleen.
Home Remedies for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP):
If you have immune thrombocytopenia, try to:
Avoid contact sports. Getting hit in the head during sports like boxing, martial arts and football could cause bleeding in the brain. Talk to your health care provider about what activities are safe.
Watch for signs of infection. If you've had your spleen removed, look for signs of infection, including fever. Get treatment quickly. Infections can be worse in people without spleens.
Take care with medicines you get without a prescription. Medicines such as aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) can increase bleeding risk.
Symptoms for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) :
Immune thrombocytopenia might not have symptoms. When symptoms occur, they might include:
Easy bruising.
Bleeding into the skin that looks like tiny reddish-purple spots, also known as petechiae. The spots mostly show up on the lower legs. They look like a rash.
Bleeding into the skin that's larger than petechiae, also known as purpura.
Bleeding from the gums or nose.
Blood in urine or stools.
Really heavy menstrual flow.
Causes for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) :
Immune thrombocytopenia usually happens when the immune system makes a mistake. It attacks and destroys the cells that help blood clot, also known as platelets.
In adults, an infection with HIV, hepatitis or the bacteria that causes stomach ulcers, known as H. pylori, can cause ITP. In most children with ITP, the disorder follows a virus, such as the mumps or the flu.
Risk Factors for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP):
ITP is more common among young women. The risk appears to be higher in people who also have other diseases in which the immune system attacks healthy tissues, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Complications for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP):
Rarely, immune thrombocytopenia causes bleeding into the brain. This can be fatal.
Someone who's pregnant with a low platelet count or who's bleeding has a greater risk of heavy bleeding during delivery. A health care provider might suggest treatment to keep the platelet count even.
ITP doesn't usually affect the fetus. However, the baby's platelet count should be tested soon after birth.
There are no preventive measures available for Immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Impacted wisdom teeth
Overview of Impacted wisdom teeth:
Wisdom teeth, the third molars at the back of the mouth, are the last adult teeth to come in. Most people have four wisdom teeth — two on the top and two on the bottom. When wisdom teeth become impacted, they don't have enough room to emerge or develop in the usual way.
Impacted wisdom teeth can cause pain, damage other teeth and lead to other dental problems. Sometimes they don't cause any problems. But because wisdom teeth are hard to clean, they may be more prone to tooth decay and gum disease than other teeth.
Impacted wisdom teeth that cause pain or other dental problems usually are taken out. Some dentists and oral surgeons also recommend taking out impacted wisdom teeth that don't cause symptoms to prevent future problems.
There are no home remedies available for Impacted wisdom teeth in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Impacted wisdom teeth :
Impacted wisdom teeth don't always cause symptoms. But when an impacted wisdom tooth becomes infected, damages other teeth or causes other dental problems, you may have some of these symptoms:
Red or swollen gums.
Tender or bleeding gums.
Jaw pain.
Swelling around the jaw.
Bad breath.
An unpleasant taste in your mouth.
A hard time opening your mouth.
Causes for Impacted wisdom teeth :
Wisdom teeth become impacted because they don't have enough room to come in or develop in the usual way.
Wisdom teeth usually emerge sometime between the ages of 17 and 26. Some people have wisdom teeth that emerge behind the second molars without any problems and line up with the other teeth. But in many cases, the mouth is too crowded for proper development of third molars. These crowded third molars become impacted.
An impacted wisdom tooth may partially emerge so that some of the crown is visible. This is called a partially impacted wisdom tooth. If the tooth never breaks through the gums, it's called a fully impacted wisdom tooth.
Whether partially or fully impacted, the tooth may:
Grow at an angle toward the next tooth, which is the second molar.
Grow at an angle toward the back of the mouth.
Grow at a right angle to the other teeth, as if the wisdom tooth is "lying down" within the jawbone.
Grow straight up or down like other teeth but stay trapped within the jawbone.
Risk Factors for Impacted wisdom teeth:
Risk factors that can lead to impacted wisdom teeth include lack of space or a blockage that keeps the teeth from emerging properly.
Complications for Impacted wisdom teeth:
Impacted wisdom teeth can cause several problems in the mouth, including:
Damage to other teeth. If the wisdom tooth pushes against the second molar, it may damage the second molar or raise the risk of infection in that area. This pressure also can cause problems with crowding of the other teeth or require orthodontic treatment to straighten other teeth.
Cysts. Wisdom teeth develop in sacs within the jawbone. The sacs can fill with fluid, forming cysts that can damage the jawbone, teeth and nerves. Rarely, a tumor develops. This type of tumor is usually noncancerous, also called benign. But tissue and bone may need to be taken out due to this problem.
Decay. Partially impacted wisdom teeth appear to be at higher risk of getting cavities compared toother teeth. This is because the position of wisdom teeth when they are impacted makes them harder to clean. Also, food and bacteria can get trapped easily between the gum and a partially erupted tooth.
Gum disease. It's hard to clean impacted, partially erupted wisdom teeth. So you're more likely to get a painful, inflammatory gum condition called pericoronitis (per-ih-kor-o-NI-tis) in those areas.
Preventions for Impacted wisdom teeth
You can't keep an impaction from occurring. But keeping regular six-month dental appointments for cleaning and checkups allows your dentist to watch the growth and emergence of your wisdom teeth. Regularly updated dental X-rays may show impacted wisdom teeth before any symptoms start.
Condition name:Incompetent cervix
Overview of Incompetent cervix:
An incompetent cervix happens when weak cervical tissue causes or plays a part in a premature birth or the loss of a healthy pregnancy. An incompetent cervix also is called cervical insufficiency.
The cervix is the lower part of the uterus that opens to the vagina. Before pregnancy, it's usually closed and firm. As pregnancy goes on and you get ready to give birth, the cervix slowly changes. It softens, gets shorter and opens. If you have an incompetent cervix, it might begin to open too soon causing you to give birth too early.
An incompetent cervix can be a hard problem to diagnose and treat. If your cervix begins to open early, or if you've had cervical insufficiency in the past, you might benefit from treatment. This might include having a procedure done to close the cervix with strong sutures, called a cervical cerclage. You also may take medicine to help the incompetent cervix and have ultrasound exams to check how things are going.
Home Remedies for Incompetent cervix:
If you have an incompetent cervix, your doctor might suggest limiting sexual activity or avoiding certain other physical activities. This advice will depend on your individual situation.
Symptoms for Incompetent cervix :
With an incompetent cervix, there may be no signs or symptoms during early pregnancy. Some women have mild discomfort or spotting before the diagnosis. Often, this occurs before 24 weeks of pregnancy.
Be on the lookout for:
A feeling of pelvic pressure.
A new backache.
Mild stomach cramps.
A change in vaginal discharge.
Light vaginal bleeding.
There are no Causes available for Incompetent cervix in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Incompetent cervix:
Many women don't have a known risk factor. Risk factors for an incompetent cervix include:
Cervical trauma. A previous procedure or surgery on the cervix could lead to an incompetent cervix. This includes surgery to treat a cervical problem found during a Pap test. A procedure called a dilation and curettage (D&C) also could be associated with an incompetent cervix. Rarely, a cervical tear during a previous labor and delivery could be a risk factor for an incompetent cervix.
A condition you're born with. This is called a congenital condition. Certain uterine conditions might cause an incompetent cervix. Genetic problems affecting a type of protein that makes up your body's connective tissues, called collagen, might cause an incompetent cervix.
Complications for Incompetent cervix:
An incompetent cervix may be risky for your pregnancy. Possible complications include:
Premature birth.
Pregnancy loss.
Preventions for Incompetent cervix
You can't prevent an incompetent cervix. But there's a lot you can do to have a healthy, full-term pregnancy. For example:
Seek regular prenatal care. Regular checkups during pregnancy can help your care team monitor your health and your baby's health. Tell your doctor about any signs or problems that worry you, even if they seem silly or not important.
Eat a healthy diet. During pregnancy, you'll need more folic acid, calcium, iron and other essential nutrients. Taking a daily prenatal vitamin can help if you're not eating enough healthy foods. Prenatal vitamins can be started a few months before conception and continued throughout your pregnancy.
Gain weight wisely. Gaining the right amount of weight can support your baby's health. A weight gain of 25 to 35 pounds, or about 11 to 16 kilograms, is often the target if you are at a healthy weight before pregnancy.
Avoid risky substances. If you smoke, quit. Alcohol and illegal drugs are off-limits too. Get your doctor's OK before taking any medicines or supplements, even those available without a prescription.
If you've had an incompetent cervix during one pregnancy, you're at risk of premature birth or pregnancy loss in later pregnancies. If you're considering getting pregnant again, talk with your doctor to understand the risks and what you can do to promote a healthy pregnancy.
Condition name:Indigestion
Overview of Indigestion:
Indigestion — also called dyspepsia or an upset stomach — is discomfort in your upper abdomen. Indigestion describes certain symptoms, such as belly pain and a feeling of fullness soon after you start eating, rather than a specific disease. Indigestion can also be a symptom of other digestive disorders.
Although indigestion is common, each person may experience indigestion in a slightly different way. Symptoms of indigestion may be felt occasionally or as often as daily.
Indigestion may often be relieved with lifestyle changes and medicines.
Home Remedies for Indigestion:
Mild indigestion can often be helped with lifestyle changes, including:
Eating smaller, more-frequent meals. Chew your food slowly and thoroughly.
Not eating certain foods. Fatty and spicy foods, processed foods, carbonated beverages, caffeine, alcohol, and smoking can trigger indigestion.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Excess pounds put pressure on your abdomen, pushing up your stomach and causing acid to back up into your esophagus.
Exercising regularly. Exercise helps you keep off extra weight and promotes better digestion.
Managing stress. Create a calm environment at mealtime. Practice relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing, meditation or yoga. Spend time doing things you enjoy. Get plenty of sleep.
Changing your medicines. With your health care provider's approval, stop or cut back on pain relievers or other medicines that may irritate your stomach lining. If that's not an option, be sure to take these medicines with food.
Symptoms for Indigestion :
If you have indigestion, you may have:
Early fullness during a meal. You haven't eaten much of your meal, but you already feel full and may not be able to finish eating.
Uncomfortable fullness after a meal. The feeling of fullness lasts longer than it should.
Discomfort in the upper abdomen. You feel a mild to severe pain in the area between the bottom of your breastbone and your bellybutton.
Burning in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable heat or burning sensation between the bottom of your breastbone and your bellybutton.
Bloating in the upper abdomen. You feel an uncomfortable sensation of tightness in your upper abdomen.
Nausea. You feel as if you want to vomit.
Less frequent symptoms include vomiting and belching.
Sometimes people with indigestion also experience heartburn. Heartburn is a pain or burning feeling in the center of your chest that may radiate into your neck or back during or after eating.
Causes for Indigestion :
Indigestion has many possible causes. Often, indigestion is related to lifestyle and may be triggered by food, drink or medicine. Common causes of indigestion include:
Overeating or eating too quickly.
Fatty, greasy or spicy foods.
Too much caffeine, alcohol, chocolate or carbonated beverages.
Smoking.
Anxiety.
Certain antibiotics, pain relievers and iron supplements.
A condition known as functional or nonulcer dyspepsia, which is related to irritable bowel syndrome, is a very common cause of indigestion.
Sometimes indigestion is caused by other conditions, including:
Inflammation of the stomach, called gastritis.
Peptic ulcers.
Celiac disease.
Gallstones.
Constipation.
Pancreas inflammation, called pancreatitis.
Stomach cancer.
Intestinal blockage.
Reduced blood flow in the intestine, called intestinal ischemia.
Diabetes.
Thyroid disease.
Pregnancy.
There are no Risk Factors available for Indigestion in the knowledge baseComplications for Indigestion:
Although indigestion doesn't usually have serious complications, it can affect your quality of life by making you feel uncomfortable and causing you to eat less. You might miss work or school because of your symptoms.
There are no preventive measures available for Indigestion in the knowledge baseCondition name:Infant reflux
Overview of Infant reflux:
Infant reflux is when a baby spits up liquid or food. It happens when stomach contents move back up from a baby's stomach into the esophagus. The esophagus is the muscular tube that connects the mouth to the stomach.
Reflux happens in healthy infants many times a day. As long as your baby is healthy, content and growing well, reflux is not a cause for concern. Sometimes called gastroesophageal reflux (GER), the condition becomes less common as a baby gets older. It's unusual for infant reflux to continue after age 18 months.
In rare cases, infant reflux leads to weight loss or growth that lags behind other children of the same age and sex. These symptoms may indicate a medical problem. These medical problems may include an allergy, a blockage in the digestive system or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). GERD is a more serious form of GER that causes serious health issues.
Home Remedies for Infant reflux:
To minimize reflux:
Feed your baby in an upright position. Then, hold your baby in a sitting position for 30 minutes after feeding. Gravity can help stomach contents stay where they belong. Be careful not to jostle or jiggle your baby while the food is settling.
Try smaller, more frequent feedings. Feed your baby a little bit less than usual if you're bottle-feeding, or cut back a little on nursing time.
Take time to burp your baby. Frequent burps during and after feeding can keep air from building up in your baby's stomach.
Put baby to sleep on the back. Most babies should be placed on their backs to sleep, even if they have reflux.
Keep in mind that infant reflux is usually little cause for concern. Just keep plenty of burp cloths handy as you wait for your baby's reflux to stop.
Symptoms for Infant reflux :
In most cases, infant reflux isn't a cause for concern. It's unusual for stomach contents to have enough acid to irritate the throat or esophagus and cause symptoms.
Causes for Infant reflux :
In infants, the ring of muscle between the esophagus and the stomach is not yet fully developed. This muscle is called the lower esophageal sphincter (LES). When the LES is not fully developed, it allows stomach contents to flow back up into the esophagus. Over time, the LES typically matures. It opens when your baby swallows and remains tightly closed at other times, keeping stomach contents where they belong.
Some factors that contribute to infant reflux are common in babies and often can't be avoided. These include lying flat most of the time and being fed an almost completely liquid diet.
Sometimes, infant reflux can be caused by more-serious conditions, such as:
GERD. The reflux has enough acid to irritate and damage the lining of the esophagus.
Pyloric stenosis. A muscular valve allows food to leave the stomach and enter the small intestine as part of digestion. In pyloric stenosis, the valve thickens and becomes larger than it should. The thickened valve then traps food in the stomach and blocks it from entering the small intestine.
Food intolerance. A protein in cow's milk is the most common trigger.
Eosinophilic esophagitis. A certain type of white blood cell builds up and injures the lining of the esophagus. This white blood cell is called an eosinophil.
Sandifer syndrome. This causes irregular tilting and rotation of the head, and movements that resemble seizures. It's a rarely seen consequence of GERD.
Risk Factors for Infant reflux:
Infant reflux is common. But some things make it more likely that a baby will experience infant reflux. These include:
Premature birth
Lung conditions, such as cystic fibrosis
Conditions that affect the nervous system, such as cerebral palsy
Previous surgery on the esophagus
Complications for Infant reflux:
Infant reflux usually resolves on its own. It rarely causes problems for babies.
If your baby has a more serious condition such as GERD, your baby's growth may lag behind that of other children. Some research indicates that babies who have frequent episodes of spitting up might be more likely to develop GERD later in childhood.
There are no preventive measures available for Infant reflux in the knowledge baseCondition name:Infertility
Overview of Infertility:
If you and your partner are struggling to have a baby, you're not alone. Millions of people around the world face the same challenge. Infertility is the medical term for when you can't get pregnant despite having frequent, unprotected sex for at least a year for most couples.
Infertility may happen because of a health issue with either you or your partner, or a mix of factors that prevent pregnancy. But many safe and effective treatments can boost your chances of getting pregnant.
There are no home remedies available for Infertility in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Infertility :
The main symptom of infertility is not getting pregnant. There may be no other clear symptoms. Some women with infertility may have irregular menstrual periods or no periods. And some men may have some symptoms of hormonal problems, such as changes in hair growth or sexual function.
Many couples eventually will conceive — with or without treatment.
Causes for Infertility :
All of the steps during ovulation and fertilization need to happen correctly in order to get pregnant. Ovulation is the release of an egg from an ovary. Fertilization is when the egg and sperm unite to form an embryo, which becomes an unborn baby during pregnancy. Sometimes, the issues that cause infertility in couples are present at birth. Other times, they develop later in life.
Infertility causes can affect one or both partners. In some cases, no cause can be found.
Risk Factors for Infertility:
Many of the risk factors for both male and female infertility are the same. They include:
Age. Women's fertility slowly declines with age, especially in the mid-30s. It drops quickly after age 37. Infertility in older women likely is due to the lower number and quality of eggs, or to health problems that affect fertility. Men over age 40 may be less fertile than younger men. The risk of birth defects and genetic problems also rises for children born to men over age 40.
Tobacco use. Smoking tobacco by either partner may lower the chances of pregnancy. It also can make fertility treatments less effective. The risk of miscarriages may rise in women who smoke tobacco. When a pregnant person's partner smokes, that also raises the risk of miscarriage — even when the pregnant person is not a smoker. And smoking can raise the risk of erectile dysfunction and a low sperm count in men.
Marijuana use. Marijuana may affect fertility, but more research is needed. Use during pregnancy has been linked with negative health effects on unborn babies. It also might raise the risk of miscarriage and stillbirth.
Alcohol use. For women, there is no safe level of alcohol use when you're trying to get pregnant or during pregnancy. Alcohol may contribute to infertility. For men, heavy drinking can lower sperm count and affect how well sperm move.
Being overweight. An inactive lifestyle and being overweight or obese can raise the risk of infertility. Obesity is linked with lower quality of semen, the fluid that contains sperm.
Being underweight. People at risk of fertility problems include those with eating disorders, such as anorexia or bulimia. Those who follow a very low-calorie or restrictive diet also are at risk.
Exercise issues. A lack of exercise plays a role in obesity, which raises the risk of infertility. Less often, ovulation problems may be linked with frequent, strenuous, intense exercise in women who are not overweight.
There are no Complications available for Infertility in the knowledge basePreventions for Infertility
Some types of infertility can't be prevented. But the following tips may boost your chances of pregnancy.
Condition name:Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
Overview of Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD):
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a term that describes disorders involving long-standing (chronic) inflammation of tissues in your digestive tract. Types of IBD include:
Ulcerative colitis. This condition involves inflammation and sores (ulcers) along the lining of your large intestine (colon) and rectum.
Crohn's disease. This type of IBD is characterized by inflammation of the lining of your digestive tract, which often can involve the deeper layers of the digestive tract. Crohn's disease most commonly affects the small intestine. However, it can also affect the large intestine and uncommonly, the upper gastrointestinal tract.
Both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease usually are characterized by diarrhea, rectal bleeding, abdominal pain, fatigue and weight loss.
For some people, IBD is only a mild illness. For others, it's a debilitating condition that can lead to life-threatening complications.
Home Remedies for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD):
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing inflammatory bowel disease. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
Diet
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to keep track of what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating those foods.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help you manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant â€” that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help as well.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of liquids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Consider multivitamins. Because Crohn's disease can interfere with your ability to absorb nutrients and because your diet may be limited, multivitamin and mineral supplements are often helpful. Check with your doctor before taking any vitamins or supplements.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Smoking
Smoking increases your risk of developing Crohn's disease, and once you have it, smoking can make it worse. People with Crohn's disease who smoke are more likely to have relapses and need medications and repeat surgeries.
Smoking may help prevent ulcerative colitis. However, its harm to overall health outweighs any benefit, and quitting smoking can improve the general health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Stress
The association of stress with Crohn's disease is controversial, but many people who have the disease report symptom flares during high-stress periods. If you have trouble managing stress, try one of these strategies:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and normalize bowel function. Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique may train you to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. One way to cope with stress is to regularly relax and use techniques such as deep, slow breathing to calm down.
Symptoms for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) :
Inflammatory bowel disease symptoms vary, depending on the severity of inflammation and where it occurs. Symptoms may range from mild to severe. You are likely to have periods of active illness followed by periods of remission.
Signs and symptoms that are common to both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis include:
Diarrhea
Fatigue
Abdominal pain and cramping
Blood in your stool
Reduced appetite
Unintended weight loss
Causes for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) :
The exact cause of inflammatory bowel disease remains unknown. Previously, diet and stress were suspected, but now doctors know that these factors may aggravate but aren't the cause of IBD.
One possible cause is an immune system malfunction. When your immune system tries to fight off an invading virus or bacterium, an atypical immune response causes the immune system to attack the cells in the digestive tract, too.
Several gene mutations have been associated with IBD. Heredity also seems to play a role in that IBD is more common in people who have family members with the disease. However, most people with IBD don't have this family history.
Risk Factors for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD):
Age. Most people who develop IBD are diagnosed before they're 30 years old. But some people don't develop the disease until their 50s or 60s.
Race or ethnicity. Although IBD is more common in white people, it can occur in any race. Cases are also increasing in other races and ethnicities.
Family history. You're at higher risk if you have a close relative — such as a parent, sibling or child — with the disease.
Cigarette smoking. Cigarette smoking is the most important controllable risk factor for developing Crohn's disease.
Smoking may help prevent ulcerative colitis. However, its harm to overall health outweighs any benefit, and quitting smoking can improve the general health of your digestive tract, as well as provide many other health benefits.
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications. These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve), diclofenac sodium and others. These medications may increase the risk of developing IBD or worsen the disease in people who have IBD.
Complications for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD):
Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease have some complications in common and others that are specific to each condition. Complications found in both conditions may include:
Colon cancer. Having ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease that affects most of your colon can increase your risk of colon cancer. Screening for cancer with a colonoscopy at regular intervals begins usually about 8 to 10 years after the diagnosis is made. Ask your doctor when and how frequently you need to have this test done.
Skin, eye and joint inflammation. Certain disorders, including arthritis, skin lesions and eye inflammation (uveitis), may occur during IBD flare-ups.
Medication side effects. Certain medications for IBD are associated with a risk of infections. Some carry a small risk of developing certain cancers. Corticosteroids can be associated with a risk of osteoporosis, high blood pressure and other conditions.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis. In this rather uncommon condition seen in people with IBD, inflammation causes scarring within the bile ducts. This scarring eventually narrows the ducts, restricting bile flow. This can eventually cause liver damage.
Blood clots. IBD increases the risk of blood clots in veins and arteries.
Severe dehydration. Excessive diarrhea can result in dehydration.
Complications of Crohn's disease may include:
Bowel obstruction. Crohn's disease affects the full thickness of the intestinal wall. Over time, parts of the bowel can thicken and narrow, which may block the flow of digestive contents. You may require surgery to remove the diseased portion of your bowel.
Malnutrition. Diarrhea, abdominal pain and cramping may make it difficult for you to eat or for your intestine to absorb enough nutrients to keep you nourished. It's also common to develop anemia due to low iron or vitamin B-12 caused by the disease.
Fistulas. Sometimes inflammation can extend completely through the intestinal wall, creating a fistula — an atypical connection between different body parts. Fistulas near or around the anal area (perianal) are the most common kind. But they can also occur internally or toward the wall of the abdominal area. In some cases, a fistula may become infected and form an infected pocket of pus known as an abscess.
Anal fissure. This is a small tear in the tissue that lines the anus or in the skin around the anus where infections can occur. It's often associated with painful bowel movements and may lead to a perianal fistula.
Complications of ulcerative colitis may include:
Toxic megacolon. Ulcerative colitis may cause the colon to rapidly widen and swell, a serious condition known as toxic megacolon.
A hole in the colon (perforated colon). A perforated colon most commonly is caused by toxic megacolon, but it may also occur on its own.
There are no preventive measures available for Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Inflammatory breast cancer
Overview of Inflammatory breast cancer:
Inflammatory breast cancer is a form of breast cancer that causes breast swelling and skin changes.
Inflammatory breast cancer happens when a growth of cells forms in the breast tissue. The cells break away from where they started to grow and travel to the lymphatic vessels in the skin. The cells can block the vessels and cause the skin on the breast to look swollen. This skin on the breast might look red or purple.
Inflammatory breast cancer is considered a locally advanced cancer. When a cancer is locally advanced, that means it has spread from where it started to nearby tissue and possibly to nearby lymph nodes.
Inflammatory breast cancer can easily be confused with a breast infection, which is a much more common cause of breast swelling and skin changes. Seek medical attention right away if you notice skin changes on your breast.
There are no home remedies available for Inflammatory breast cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Inflammatory breast cancer :
Inflammatory breast cancer doesn't commonly form a lump, as occurs with other forms of breast cancer. Instead, signs and symptoms of inflammatory breast cancer include:
Fast change in the appearance of one breast, over the course of several weeks.
Thickness, heaviness or swelling of one breast.
Changes in skin color, giving the breast a red, purple, pink or bruised appearance.
Unusual warmth of the affected breast.
Dimpling or ridges on the skin of the affected breast, similar to an orange peel.
Tenderness, pain or aching.
Enlarged lymph nodes under the arm, above the collarbone or below the collarbone.
Flattened nipple or nipple that turns inward on the affected breast.
For inflammatory breast cancer to be diagnosed, these symptoms must have been present for less than six months.
Causes for Inflammatory breast cancer :
Inflammatory breast cancer happens when cells in the breast develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
Most often the DNA changes happen in a cell in one of the tubes, called ducts, that can carry breast milk to the nipple. But the cancer also can begin with a cell in the glandular tissue, called lobules, where breast milk can be produced.
In inflammatory breast cancer, the cancer cells break away from where they started. They travel to the lymphatic vessels in the breast skin. The cells grow to clog the vessels. The blockage in the lymphatic vessels causes skin color changes, swelling and dimpled skin. This skin is a classic sign of inflammatory breast cancer.
Risk Factors for Inflammatory breast cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of inflammatory breast cancer include:
There are no Complications available for Inflammatory breast cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Inflammatory breast cancer
Making changes in your daily life may help lower your risk of breast cancer. Try to:
Condition name:Influenza (flu)
Overview of Influenza (flu):
Flu, also called influenza, is an infection of the nose, throat and lungs, which are part of the respiratory system. The flu is caused by a virus. Influenza viruses are different from the "stomach flu" viruses that cause diarrhea and vomiting.
Most people with the flu get better on their own. But sometimes, influenza and its complications can be deadly. To help protect against seasonal flu, you can get an annual flu shot. Although the vaccine isn't 100% effective, it lowers the chances of having severe complications from the flu. This is especially true for people who are at high risk of flu complications.
Aside from the vaccine, you can take other steps to help prevent infection with the flu. You can clean and disinfect surfaces, wash hands, and keep the air around you moving.
Home Remedies for Influenza (flu):
If you have the flu, these measures may help ease your symptoms:
Drink plenty of liquids. Choose water, juice and warm soups to help keep fluids in your body.
Rest. Get more sleep to help your immune system fight infection. You may need to change your activity level, depending on your symptoms.
Consider pain relievers. Use acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) for fever, headache or achiness associated with influenza. Children and teens recovering from flu-like symptoms should never take aspirin because of the risk of Reye's syndrome, a rare but potentially fatal condition.
To help control the spread of influenza in your community, stay home and keep sick children home until the fever is gone, without the use of medicine, for 24 hours. Unless you're going to a medical appointment, avoid being around other people until you're feeling better. If you need to leave your home to get medical care, wear a face mask. Wash your hands often.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Influenza (flu) :
The viruses that cause flu spread at high levels during certain times of the year in the Northern and Southern hemispheres. These are called flu seasons. In North America, flu season usually runs between October and May.
Symptoms of the flu such as a sore throat and a runny or stuffy nose are common. You may also get these symptoms with other illness such as a cold. But colds tend to start slowly, and the flu tends to come on quickly, within two or three days after you come in contact with the virus. And while a cold can be miserable, you usually feel much worse with the flu.
Other common flu symptoms include:
Fever.
Cough.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Feeling very tired.
Sweating and chills.
In children, these symptoms may show up more generally as being fussy or irritable. Children also are more likely than adults to have ear pain, feel sick to the stomach, vomit or have diarrhea with the flu.
In some cases, people have eye pain, watery eyes or find that light hurts their eyes.
Causes for Influenza (flu) :
Influenza is caused by viruses. These viruses travel through the air in droplets when someone with the infection coughs, sneezes or talks. You can inhale the droplets directly. Or you can pick up the virus from touching an object, such as a computer keyboard, and then touching your eyes, nose or mouth.
It's possible to spread the virus to others from about a day before symptoms appear until about 5 to 7 days after they start. This is called being contagious. Children and people with weakened immune systems may be contagious for a slightly longer time.
Influenza viruses are constantly changing, with new strains appearing often.
A person's first flu infection gives some long-term protection against similar strains of flu. But the vaccines offered each year are made to match the flu virus strains that are most likely to spread that season. The protection these vaccines offer lasts for months in most people.
Risk Factors for Influenza (flu):
There are a range of factors that may raise your risk of catching a flu virus or having complications from a flu infection.
Seasonal influenza tends to have worse outcomes in young children, especially those age 2 years and younger. Adults older than age 65 also tend to have worse outcomes.
People who live in facilities with many other residents, such as nursing homes, are more likely to get the flu.
An immune system that doesn't quickly clear out flu virus may raise the risk of getting the flu or getting flu complications. People may have a weakened immune system response from birth, due to illness, or due to disease treatment or medicine.
Chronic conditions may increase the risk of influenza complications. Examples include asthma and other lung diseases, diabetes, heart disease, nervous system diseases, previous history of stroke, metabolic disorders, problems with the airway, and kidney, liver or blood disease.
In the United States, people who are Native American or Alaska Native, Black, or Latino may have a higher risk of needing care in the hospital for influenza.
Young people on long-term aspirin therapy are at risk of developing Reye's syndrome if infected with the influenza virus.
Pregnant people are more likely to develop influenza complications, particularly in the second and third trimesters.
People with a body mass index (BMI) of 40 or higher have an increased risk of flu complications.
Complications for Influenza (flu):
If you're young and healthy, the flu usually isn't serious. Although you may feel awful while you have it, the flu usually goes away in a week or two with no lasting effects.
But people at high risk may develop other health problems after the flu, called complications.
Getting another infection can be a complication of getting the flu. That includes illnesses such as croup and sinus or ear infections. Lung infections are another complication. Infection of the heart muscle or heart lining may happen after getting the flu. And in some cases, people may have infection of the central nervous system.
Other complications may be:
Acute respiratory distress syndrome.
Muscle damage, called rhabdomyolysis, or muscle swelling, called myositis.
Toxic shock syndrome.
Worsening of a chronic illness, such as asthma or kidney disease.
Preventions for Influenza (flu)
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends annual flu vaccination for people age 6 months and older who do not have a medical reason to avoid the vaccine.
Getting a flu vaccine lowers:
The risk of getting the flu. If the vaccine is given later in pregnancy, the flu vaccine helps protect a newborn from the flu too.
The risk of having serious illness from the flu and needing to stay in the hospital due to the flu.
The risk of dying of the flu.
The 2024-2025 seasonal flu vaccines each provide protection against three influenza viruses that researchers expect to be the most common this flu season.
The vaccine is available as a shot, a jet injector and a nasal spray.
For older children and adults, the flu shot is usually given in a muscle in the arm. Younger children may get the flu shot in a thigh muscle.
If you are an adult under the age of 65, you can choose to get your vaccine with a jet injector. Instead of a needle, this device uses a high-pressure, narrow stream of fluid to go through the skin.
The nasal spray is approved for people between ages 2 and 49 years old. It isn't recommended for some groups, such as:
People who had a severe allergic reaction to a flu vaccine in the past.
Pregnant people.
Young people who take aspirin or a salicylate-containing medicine.
People with weakened immune systems and people who are caregivers or close contacts of people with weakened immune systems.
Children between ages 2 and 4 years old diagnosed with asthma or wheezing in the past 12 months.
People who recently took antiviral medicine for the flu.
People with a cerebrospinal fluid leak or the potential for a leak, as with a cochlear implant.
Check with your healthcare team to see if you need to be cautious about getting a nasal spray flu vaccine.
There also are vaccines offered called high-dose or adjuvanted flu vaccines. These vaccines may help some people avoid the need for care in the hospital due to influenza. People over age 65 can get these vaccines. These vaccines also are recommended for people age 18 and older who have a solid organ transplant and take medicine to weaken their immune response.
If you have an egg allergy, you can still get a flu vaccine.
The first time children between 6 months and 8 years get a flu vaccine, they may need two doses given at least four weeks apart. After that, they can receive single annual doses of the flu vaccine. Check with your child's healthcare professional.
Also, check with your healthcare team before receiving a flu vaccine if you had a serious reaction to a previous flu vaccine. People who have had Guillain-Barre syndrome also should check with a healthcare professional before getting the flu vaccine. And if you feel sick when you go to get the shot, check with your healthcare team to see if you should delay getting the vaccine.
Condition name:Ingrown hair
Overview of Ingrown hair:
Ingrown hair occurs when a hair that's been removed starts to grow back and curves into the skin. Shaving, tweezing or waxing can cause this to happen. An ingrown hair can cause tiny, swollen bumps on the skin that may hurt. The condition most often affects Black people with curly hair who shave.
Most instances of ingrown hair get better without treatment. You can avoid this condition by not removing hair or not shaving very close to the skin. If that's not an option, you might try other hair removal methods that lessen the risk of developing ingrown hair.
Home Remedies for Ingrown hair:
Shaving too close can cause skin problems
Show transcript
for video Shaving too close can cause skin problems
If you have razor bumps but can't stop shaving, develop a consistent skin care routine such as the following to help control this condition:
Shave at least twice a week.
Don't tweeze ingrown hairs.
Before shaving wash the affected area using a warm washcloth or soft-bristled toothbrush. Use a circular motion for a few minutes.
Apply a warm, damp cloth for a few more minutes.
Apply shaving cream â€” don't let it dry out â€” and use a sharp, single-blade razor.
Don't pull your skin while shaving.
Shave in the direction of hair growth.
Rinse the blade after each stroke.
Release visible ingrown hairs by inserting a sterile needle under each hair loop and gently lifting the tip that has grown back into the skin.
Rinse your skin and apply a cool, wet cloth for a few minutes. Then use a soothing after-shave product. If needed, try using a 1% hydrocortisone cream for no more than four weeks.
If you're able, avoid close shaves. Try using an electric clippers. Set it to leave stubble. If shaving worsens your condition, you might want to try a chemical hair removal product (depilatory), such as Nair, Magic, others. Test it on a small patch of hair first.
Symptoms for Ingrown hair :
Signs and symptoms of ingrown hair include:
Tiny, swollen bumps where you shave, tweeze or wax
Small bumps that look like blisters or are filled with pus
Small bumps that are darker than surrounding skin (hyperpigmentation)
Burning or stinging
Itching
Hair in the shape of a loop because the tip of the hair curves and grows into the skin
Causes for Ingrown hair :
Ingrown hair occurs when a hair that's been removed starts to grow back and curves into the skin. This usually happens after shaving, tweezing or waxing.
Hair structure and direction of growth play a role in ingrown hair. A curved hair follicle, which produces tightly curled hair, is believed to encourage the hair to reenter the skin once the hair is cut and starts to grow back. Shaving creates a sharp edge on hair, making it easier to pierce the skin.
Ingrown hair might also be caused by:
Pulling your skin when you shave. This action causes hair to draw back into the skin.
Tweezing.
When a hair penetrates your skin, your skin reacts as it would to a foreign body — it becomes irritated.
Risk Factors for Ingrown hair:
The main risk factor for ingrown hair is having tightly curled hair.
Complications for Ingrown hair:
Ingrown hair that doesn't clear up can lead to:
Bacterial infection (from scratching)
Patches of skin that are darker than usual (postinflammatory hyperpigmentation)
Raised scars that are darker than surrounding skin (keloids)
Pseudofolliculitis barbae, also known as razor bumps
Fine depressed scars (grooves)
Preventions for Ingrown hair
To help prevent ingrown hair, avoid shaving, tweezing and waxing. If that's not an option, use these tips to make ingrown hair less likely:
Before shaving wash your skin with warm water and a mild facial cleanser.
Apply lubricating shaving cream or gel a few minutes before shaving to soften the hair. Or apply a warm, damp cloth.
Apply shaving cream and use a sharp, single-blade razor. This helps avoid a too-close shave.
Don't pull your skin while shaving.
Shave in the direction of hair growth.
Rinse the blade after each stroke.
Rinse your skin and apply a cool, wet cloth for about five minutes. Then use a soothing after-shave product or a glycolic acid lotion to help remove dead skin cells (exfoliate).
The following hair removal methods also may help prevent ingrown hair:
Electric razor or clippers. With the razor, avoid the closest shave setting. Hold the razor or clippers slightly away from your skin.
Chemical hair remover (depilatory). The chemicals in hair removal products may irritate your skin, so test on a small patch of hair first.
Condition name:Inherited metabolic disorders
Overview of Inherited metabolic disorders:
Inherited metabolic disorders are medical conditions caused by changes in specific genes that affect metabolism. Different gene changes cause different types of inherited metabolic disorders. These gene changes are most commonly passed down from both parents. But sometimes the gene change comes only from one parent, most often from the mother. These disorders also are called inborn errors of metabolism.
Metabolism is the complex set of chemical reactions that your body uses to maintain life. These include:
Making energy. Special enzymes break down food or certain chemicals so your body can use them right away for fuel or store them for later use.
Making or getting rid of substances. Certain chemical processes make substances your body needs. Other chemical processes break down substances that your body no longer needs.
When these processes don't work properly, a metabolic disorder occurs. It may be due to an enzyme that's too low or missing or to another problem. Inherited metabolic disorders fall into different groups. They're grouped by the substance affected and whether it builds up too much because it can't be broken down or it's too low or missing.
There are no home remedies available for Inherited metabolic disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Inherited metabolic disorders :
There are hundreds of inherited metabolic disorders caused by different genes. Symptoms depend on the type of disorder and how severe it is.
Examples of inherited metabolic disorders include:
Familial hypercholesterolemia.
Gaucher disease.
Hunter syndrome.
Krabbe disease.
Maple syrup urine disease.
Metachromatic leukodystrophy.
Mitochondrial encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, stroke-like episodes (MELAS).
Niemann-Pick.
Phenylketonuria (PKU).
Porphyria.
Tay-Sachs disease.
Wilson's disease.
Causes for Inherited metabolic disorders :
Inherited metabolic disorders are caused by changes in specific genes that affect metabolism. Different gene changes cause different types of inherited metabolic disorders. These gene changes are most commonly passed down from both parents. But sometimes the gene change comes only from one parent, most often from the mother. There are hundreds of inherited metabolic disorders caused by different genes.
Risk Factors for Inherited metabolic disorders:
The risk of an inherited metabolic disorder is higher if one or both parents have the gene change that can cause the condition. In some cases, future parents may decide to have carrier testing before pregnancy. This test can identify some gene changes in parents that may raise the risk that future children will have certain types of inherited metabolic disorders.
There are no Complications available for Inherited metabolic disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Inherited metabolic disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Insomnia
Overview of Insomnia:
Insomnia is a common sleep disorder that can make it hard to fall asleep or stay asleep. It also can cause you to wake up too early and not be able to get back to sleep. You may still feel tired when you wake up. Insomnia can drain your energy level and affect your mood. It also can affect your health, work performance and quality of life.
How much sleep is enough varies from person to person. But most adults need 7 to 9 hours a night.
At some point, many adults have short-term insomnia. This can last for days or weeks. Short-term insomnia is usually due to stress or a distressing event. But some people have long-term insomnia, also called chronic insomnia. This lasts for three months or more. Insomnia may be the main problem, or it may be related to other medical conditions or medicines.
You do not have to put up with sleepless nights. Simple changes in your daily habits often can help.
Home Remedies for Insomnia:
No matter your age, insomnia typically can be treated. The key often lies in changes to your routine during the day and when you go to bed.
These tips may help:
Follow a sleep schedule. Keep your bedtime and wake time the same every day, including on weekends.
Stay active. Regular activity can lead to a good night's sleep. Schedule exercise at least a few hours before you go to bed. Do not take part in activities that use a lot of energy too close to bedtime.
Check your medicines. If you take medicines regularly, check with your doctor to see if they may be playing a part in your insomnia. Also, check the labels of products available without a prescription to see if they contain caffeine or other stimulants, such as pseudoephedrine.
Limit or stop naps. Naps can make it harder to fall asleep at night. If you cannot get by without one, try to limit a nap to no more than 30 minutes. Also, do not nap after 3 p.m. if your regular sleep time is at night.
Limit or do not use caffeine, alcohol and nicotine. Caffeine, alcohol and nicotine can make it harder to sleep. This effect can last for several hours.
Do not put up with pain. If a painful condition bothers you, talk to your doctor about which pain relievers may control pain while you sleep.
Do not eat large meals or drink a lot of fluids before bed. A light snack is fine and may help avoid heartburn. Drink less liquid before bedtime so that you will not have to urinate as often.
At bedtime:
Make your bedroom comfortable for sleep. Only use your bedroom for sex or sleep. Keep it dark, quiet and at a comfortable temperature. Hide all clocks in your bedroom, including your watch and cellphone. That way, you do not worry about what time it is.
Find ways to relax. Try to put your worries and planning aside when you get into bed. A warm bath or a massage before you go to bed can help prepare you for sleep. Create a relaxing bedtime ritual, such as taking a hot bath, reading, listening to soft music, doing breathing exercises or yoga, or praying.
Do not try too hard to sleep. The harder you try to sleep, the more awake you'll become. Read in another room until you become drowsy. Then go to bed to sleep. Do not go to bed too early, before you're sleepy.
Get out of bed when you're not sleeping. Sleep as much as you need to feel rested. Then get out of bed. Do not stay in bed if you're not sleeping.
More Information
Insomnia care at Mayo Clinic
Insomnia: How do I stay asleep?
Symptoms for Insomnia :
Insomnia symptoms may include:
Having a hard time falling asleep at night.
Waking up during the night.
Waking up too early.
Feeling tired or sleepy during the day.
Feeling cranky, depressed or anxious.
Having a hard time paying attention, focusing on tasks or remembering.
Making more errors or having more accidents.
Having ongoing worries about sleep.
Causes for Insomnia :
Insomnia may be the main problem or it may be related to other conditions.
Long-term insomnia is usually due to stress, life events or habits that disrupt sleep. While treating the cause of your sleep problem may stop your insomnia, sometimes it can last for years.
Common causes of long-term insomnia include:
Stress. Concerns about work, school, health, money or family can keep your mind active at night, making it hard to sleep. Stressful life events, such as the death or illness of a loved one, divorce, or a job loss, also may lead to insomnia.
Travel or work schedule. Your body's "internal clock," known as circadian rhythms, guides things such as your sleep-wake cycle, metabolism and body temperature. Disrupting these rhythms can lead to insomnia. Causes include feeling jet lag from traveling across multiple time zones, working a late or early shift, or changing shifts often.
Poor sleep habits. Poor sleep habits include going to bed and waking up at different times each day, taking naps, being too active before bedtime and having a sleep area that is not comfortable. Other poor sleep habits include working, eating or watching TV while in bed. Using computers or smartphones, playing video games, or watching TV just before bed can disrupt your sleep cycle.
Eating too much late in the evening. Having a light snack before bedtime is OK. But eating too much may cause you to feel uncomfortable while lying down. Many people also have heartburn. This is when stomach acid backs up into the tube that carries food from your mouth to your stomach. This tube is called the esophagus. Heartburn may keep you awake.
Mental health disorders. Anxiety disorders, such as post-traumatic stress disorder, may disrupt your sleep. Waking up too early can be a sign of depression. Insomnia often occurs with other mental health conditions.
Medicines. Many prescription drugs can interfere with sleep, such as certain antidepressants and medicines for asthma or blood pressure. Many medicines available without a prescription, such as some pain medicines, allergy and cold medicines, and weight-loss products, contain caffeine and other stimulants that can disrupt sleep.
Medical conditions. Examples of conditions linked with insomnia include ongoing pain, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), overactive thyroid, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.
Sleep-related disorders. Sleep apnea causes you to stop breathing at times during the night, disrupting your sleep. Restless legs syndrome causes a strong uncomfortable urge to move your legs when trying to fall asleep. This may keep you from falling asleep or getting back to sleep.
Caffeine, nicotine and alcohol. Coffee, tea, cola and other drinks that have caffeine are stimulants. Drinking them in the late afternoon or evening can keep you from falling asleep at night. Nicotine in tobacco products is another stimulant that can disrupt sleep. Alcohol may help you fall asleep, but it prevents deeper stages of sleep and often results in waking up in the middle of the night.
Risk Factors for Insomnia:
Nearly everyone has an occasional sleepless night. But you're more likely to have insomnia if:
You're a woman. Changes in hormones during the menstrual cycle and in menopause may play a role. During menopause, night sweats and hot flashes often disrupt sleep. Insomnia also is common during pregnancy.
You're over 60. Because of changes in sleep patterns and health, it's more likely you'll have insomnia as you get older.
You have a mental health or physical health condition. Many issues that affect your mental or physical health can disrupt sleep.
You're under a lot of stress. Being stressed can cause short-term insomnia. Major or long-lasting stress can lead to long-term insomnia.
You do not have a regular schedule. For example, changing shifts at work or traveling can disrupt your sleep-wake cycle.
Complications for Insomnia:
Sleep is as important to your health as a healthy diet and regular physical activity. Whatever is keeping you from sleeping, insomnia can affect you mentally and physically. People with insomnia report a lower quality of life compared with people who sleep well.
Complications of insomnia may include:
Lower performance on the job or at school.
Slowed reaction time while driving and a higher risk of accidents.
Mental health conditions, such as depression, anxiety or substance misuse.
Higher risk or worsening of long-term diseases or conditions, such as high blood pressure and heart disease.
Preventions for Insomnia
Good sleep habits like these can help prevent insomnia:
Keep the time you go to bed and the time you wake up the same every day, including weekends.
Stay active. Regular activity can lead to a good night's sleep.
Limit naps or do not nap at all.
Limit or do not use caffeine, alcohol and nicotine.
Do not eat large meals or drink a lot of fluids before bed.
Make your bedroom comfortable for sleep and only use it for sex or sleep.
Create a relaxing bedtime ritual, such as taking a warm bath, reading or listening to soft music.
Condition name:Intermittent explosive disorder
Overview of Intermittent explosive disorder:
Intermittent explosive disorder involves repeated, sudden bouts of impulsive, aggressive, violent behavior or angry verbal outbursts. The reactions are too extreme for the situation. Road rage, domestic abuse, throwing or breaking objects, or other temper tantrums may be symptoms of intermittent explosive disorder.
These explosive outbursts, which occur off and on, cause major distress. They can harm relationships and cause problems at work or school. They also can result in problems with the law.
Intermittent explosive disorder is a long-term condition that can go on for years. But the severity of outbursts may lessen with age. Treatment involves talk therapy and medicine to help you control your aggressive impulses.
There are no home remedies available for Intermittent explosive disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Intermittent explosive disorder :
Impulsive attacks and angry outbursts occur suddenly, with little or no warning. They usually last less than 30 minutes. These bouts may occur often or be separated by weeks or months. Verbal outbursts or less severe physical attacks may still occur in between these times. You may be irritable, impulsive, aggressive or angry most of the time.
Before an aggressive bout, you may feel:
Rage.
Irritability.
More tension and energy.
Racing thoughts.
Tingling.
Shaking.
Fast or pounding heartbeat.
Chest tightness.
The explosive verbal and behavioral outbursts are much too intense for the situation, with no thought about what might happen as a result. The outbursts can include:
Temper tantrums.
Long, angry speeches.
Heated arguments.
Shouting.
Slapping, shoving or pushing.
Physical fights.
Property damage.
Threatening or harming people or animals.
You may feel a sense of relief and tiredness after the outburst. Later, you may feel guilty, sorry for your actions or embarrassed.
Causes for Intermittent explosive disorder :
Intermittent explosive disorder can begin in childhood — after the age of 6 years — or during the teenage years. It's more common in younger adults than in older adults. The exact cause of the disorder is not known. It may be caused by the living environment and learned behaviors, genetics, or differences in the brain.
Living environment. Most people with this condition grew up in families where explosive behavior and verbal and physical abuse were common. Children who see or go through this type of violence at an early age are more likely to have these same traits as they grow up.
Genetics. Genetics may play a role. There could be a gene related to the tendency to react more easily to stress. This gene may be passed down from parents to children.
Differences in how the brain works. There may be differences in the structure, function and chemistry of the brain in people with intermittent explosive disorder compared with that of the brains of people who do not have the disorder.
Risk Factors for Intermittent explosive disorder:
These factors raise your risk of developing intermittent explosive disorder:
History of physical abuse. Being abused as a child, being bullied, or going through other disturbing, shocking or painful events can raise the risk of having intermittent explosive disorder.
History of other mental health conditions. Having antisocial personality disorder or borderline personality disorder may raise the risk of also having intermittent explosive disorder. So can having other disorders that include disruptive behaviors, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Problems with alcohol and drugs also can be a risk factor.
Complications for Intermittent explosive disorder:
People with intermittent explosive disorder have a higher risk of:
Problems with relationships. Others often think that people with intermittent impulsive disorder are always angry. Verbal fights or physical abuse can happen often. These actions can lead to relationship problems, divorce and family stress.
Trouble at work, home or school. Complications of intermittent explosive disorder may include job loss, school suspension, car accidents, money problems or trouble with the law.
Problems with mood. Mood disorders such as depression and anxiety often occur with intermittent explosive disorder.
Problems with alcohol and drug use. Problems with alcohol or drugs often occur along with intermittent explosive disorder.
Physical health problems. Medical conditions are more common and can include, for example, high blood pressure, diabetes, heart disease and stroke, ulcers, and ongoing pain.
Self-harm. Self-injury or suicide attempts sometimes occur.
Preventions for Intermittent explosive disorder
If you have intermittent explosive disorder, prevention is likely beyond your control unless you get treatment from a mental health professional.
After you start treatment, follow the plan and practice the skills you learn. If medicine is prescribed, be sure to take it. Do not use alcohol or drugs.
When possible, leave or avoid situations that upset you. Also, scheduling personal time to allow you to lower stress may help you to better handle an upcoming stressful or frustrating situation.
Condition name:Interstitial lung disease
Overview of Interstitial lung disease:
Interstitial (in-tur-STISH-ul) lung disease describes a large group of disorders, most of which cause progressive scarring of lung tissue. The scarring associated with interstitial lung disease eventually affects your ability to breathe and get enough oxygen into your bloodstream.
Interstitial lung disease can be caused by long-term exposure to hazardous materials, such as asbestos. Some types of autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, also can cause interstitial lung disease. In some cases, however, the causes remain unknown.
Once lung scarring occurs, it's generally irreversible. Medications may slow the damage of interstitial lung disease, but many people never regain full use of their lungs. Lung transplant is an option for some people who have interstitial lung disease.
Home Remedies for Interstitial lung disease:
Being actively involved in your own treatment and staying as healthy as possible are essential to living with interstitial lung disease. For that reason, it's important to:
Stop smoking. If you have lung disease, the best thing you can do for yourself is to stop smoking. Talk to your doctor about options for quitting, including smoking cessation programs, which use a variety of proven techniques to help people quit. And because secondhand smoke also can be harmful to your lungs, don't allow people to smoke around you.
Eat well. People with lung disease may lose weight both because it's uncomfortable to eat and because of the extra energy it takes to breathe. These people need a nutritionally rich diet that contains adequate calories. A dietitian can give you further guidelines for healthy eating.
Get vaccinated. Respiratory infections can worsen symptoms of intersitial lung disease. Make sure you receive the pneumonia vaccine and an annual flu shot.
Symptoms for Interstitial lung disease :
The primary signs and symptoms of interstitial lung disease are:
Shortness of breath at rest or aggravated by exertion
Dry cough
By the time symptoms appear, irreversible lung damage has often already occurred. Nevertheless, it's important to see your doctor at the first sign of breathing problems. Many conditions other than interstitial lung disease can affect your lungs, and getting an early and accurate diagnosis is important for proper treatment.
Causes for Interstitial lung disease :
Interstitial lung disease seems to occur when an injury to your lungs triggers an abnormal healing response. Ordinarily, your body generates just the right amount of tissue to repair damage. But in interstitial lung disease, the repair process goes awry and the tissue around the air sacs (alveoli) becomes scarred and thickened. This makes it more difficult for oxygen to pass into your bloodstream.
Interstitial lung disease can be triggered by many different things — including airborne toxins in the workplace, drugs and some types of medical treatments. In most cases, the causes are unknown.
Long-term exposure to a number of toxins and pollutants can damage your lungs. These may include:
Silica dust
Asbestos fibers
Grain dust
Bird and animal droppings
Radiation treatments
Indoor hot tubs
Some people who receive radiation therapy for lung or breast cancer show signs of lung damage months or sometimes years after the initial treatment.
Many drugs can damage your lungs, especially:
Chemotherapy drugs. Drugs designed to kill cancer cells, such as methotrexate (Otrexup, Trexall, others) and cyclophosphamide, can also damage lung tissue.
Heart medications. Some drugs used to treat irregular heartbeats, such as amiodarone (Nexterone, Pacerone) or propranolol (Inderal, Innopran), may harm lung tissue.
Some antibiotics. Nitrofurantoin (Macrobid, Macrodantin, others) and ethambutol (Myambutol) can cause lung damage.
Anti-inflammatory drugs. Certain anti-inflammatory drugs, such as rituximab (Rituxan) or sulfasalazine (Azulfidine), can cause lung damage.
Lung damage can also result from autoimmune diseases such as:
Rheumatoid arthritis
Scleroderma
Dermatomyositis and polymyositis
Mixed connective tissue disease
Sjogren's syndrome
Sarcoidosis
The list of substances and conditions that can lead to interstitial lung disease is long. Even so, in some cases, the causes are never found. Disorders without a known cause are grouped together under the label of idiopathic interstitial pneumonias, the most common and deadly of which is idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Risk Factors for Interstitial lung disease:
Factors that may make you more susceptible to interstitial lung disease include:
Age. Interstitial lung disease is much more likely to affect adults, although infants and children sometimes develop the disorder.
Exposure to occupational and environmental toxins. If you work in mining, farming or construction or for any reason are exposed to pollutants known to damage your lungs, your risk of interstitial lung disease is increased.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease. If you have uncontrolled acid reflux or indigestion, you may be at increased risk of interstitial lung disease.
Smoking. Some forms of interstitial lung disease are more likely to occur in people with a history of smoking, and active smoking may make the condition worse, especially if there is associated emphysema.
Radiation and chemotherapy. Having radiation treatments to your chest or using some chemotherapy drugs makes it more likely that you'll develop lung disease.
Complications for Interstitial lung disease:
Interstitial lung disease can lead to a series of life-threatening complications, including:
High blood pressure in your lungs (pulmonary hypertension). Unlike systemic high blood pressure, this condition affects only the arteries in your lungs. It begins when scar tissue or low oxygen levels restrict the smallest blood vessels, limiting blood flow in your lungs. This in turn raises pressure within the pulmonary arteries. Pulmonary hypertension is a serious illness that becomes progressively worse.
Right-sided heart failure (cor pulmonale). This serious condition occurs when your heart's lower right chamber (right ventricle) — which is less muscular than the left — has to pump harder than usual to move blood through obstructed pulmonary arteries. Eventually the right ventricle fails from the extra strain. This is often a consequence of pulmonary hypertension.
Respiratory failure. In the end stage of chronic interstitial lung disease, respiratory failure occurs when severely low blood oxygen levels along with rising pressures in the pulmonary arteries and the right ventricle cause heart failure.
There are no preventive measures available for Interstitial lung disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Intestinal ischemia
Overview of Intestinal ischemia:
Intestinal ischemia (is-KEE-me-uh) refers to a range of conditions that happen when blood flow to the intestines slows or stops. Ischemia can be due to a fully or partly blocked blood vessel, most often an artery. Or low blood pressure may lead to less blood flow. Intestinal ischemia can affect the small intestine, the large intestine or both.
Less blood flow means that too little oxygen goes to the cells in the system through which food travels, called the digestive system. Intestinal ischemia is a serious condition that can cause pain. It can make it hard for the intestines to work well.
In severe cases, loss of blood flow to the intestines can cause lifelong damage to the intestines. And it may lead to death.
There are treatments for intestinal ischemia. Getting medical help early improves the chances of recovery.
There are no home remedies available for Intestinal ischemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Intestinal ischemia :
Symptoms of intestinal ischemia can come on quickly. When this happens, the condition is called acute intestinal ischemia. When symptoms come on slowly, the condition is called chronic intestinal ischemia. Symptoms may differ from person to person. But certain symptoms suggest a diagnosis of intestinal ischemia.
Causes for Intestinal ischemia :
Intestinal ischemia happens when the blood flow through the major blood vessels that send blood to and from the intestines slows or stops. The condition has many possible causes. Causes may include:
A blood clot that blocks an artery.
A narrowed artery due to buildup of fatty deposits, such as cholesterol. This condition is called atherosclerosis.
Low blood pressure leading to less blood flow.
Blockage in a vein, which happens less often.
Intestinal ischemia often is split into groups. Colon ischemia, also called ischemic colitis, affects the large intestine. Other types of ischemia affect the small intestine. These are acute mesenteric ischemia, chronic mesenteric ischemia and ischemia due to mesenteric venous thrombosis.
Risk Factors for Intestinal ischemia:
Factors that may increase your risk of intestinal ischemia include:
Buildup of fatty deposits in your arteries, called atherosclerosis. If you've had other conditions caused by atherosclerosis, you have an increased risk of intestinal ischemia. These conditions include less blood flow to the heart, called coronary artery disease; less blood flow to the legs, called peripheral vascular disease; or less blood flow to the arteries that go to the brain, called carotid artery disease.
Age. People older than 50 are more likely to get intestinal ischemia.
Smoking. Using cigarettes and other forms of smoked tobacco increases your risk of intestinal ischemia.
Heart and blood vessel conditions. Your risk of intestinal ischemia is higher if you have congestive heart failure or an irregular heartbeat such as atrial fibrillation. Blood vessel diseases that result in irritation, called inflammation, of veins and arteries also may increase risk. This inflammation is known as vasculitis.
Medicines. Certain medicines may increase your risk of intestinal ischemia. Examples include birth control pills and medicines that cause your blood vessels to expand or contract, such as some allergy medicines and migraine medicines.
Blood-clotting problems. Diseases and conditions that raise your risk of blood clots also may raise your risk of intestinal ischemia. Examples include sickle cell anemia and a genetic condition known as the factor V Leiden mutation.
Other health conditions. Having high blood pressure, diabetes or high cholesterol can increase the risk of intestinal ischemia.
Illicit drug use. Cocaine and methamphetamine use have been linked to intestinal ischemia.
Complications for Intestinal ischemia:
Complications of intestinal ischemia can include:
Death of intestinal tissue. A sudden and complete blockage in blood flow to the intestines can kill intestinal tissue. This is called gangrene.
A hole through the wall of the intestines, called a perforation. A hole can cause what's in the intestine to leak into the belly. This may cause a serious infection called peritonitis.
Scarring or narrowing of the intestine. Sometimes the intestines recover from ischemia. But as part of the healing process, the body forms scar tissue that narrows or blocks the intestines. This happens most often in the colon. Rarely, this happens in the small intestine.
Other health conditions, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, also called COPD, can make intestinal ischemia worse. Emphysema, a type of COPD, and other smoking-related lung diseases increase this risk.
Sometimes, intestinal ischemia can be fatal.
There are no preventive measures available for Intestinal ischemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Intracranial hematoma
Overview of Intracranial hematoma:
An intracranial hematoma is a collection of blood within the skull. The blood may collect in the brain tissue or underneath the skull, pressing on the brain. It's usually caused by a blood vessel that bursts in the brain. It also may be caused by a head injury due to a car accident or fall.
Some head injuries, such as one that causes only a short period of unconsciousness, can be minor. However, an intracranial hematoma is potentially life-threatening. It usually requires immediate treatment. This might include surgery to remove the blood.
There are no home remedies available for Intracranial hematoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Intracranial hematoma :
Symptoms of an intracranial hematoma may develop right after a head injury, or they may take weeks or longer to appear. There may be a period of time without symptoms after a head injury. This is called the lucid interval.
Over time, pressure on the brain increases, producing some or all of the following symptoms:
Headache that gets worse.
Vomiting.
Drowsiness and gradual loss of consciousness.
Dizziness.
Confusion.
Pupils that are different sizes.
Slurred speech.
Loss of movement, known as paralysis, on the opposite side of the body from the head injury.
As more blood fills the brain or the narrow space between the brain and skull, other symptoms may appear, such as:
Feeling very sleepy or sluggish.
Seizures.
Loss of consciousness.
Causes for Intracranial hematoma :
The most common cause of an intracranial hematoma is a head injury. A head injury that causes bleeding within the skull may result from motor vehicle or bicycle accidents, falls, assaults, and sports injuries.
If you're an older adult, even mild head trauma can cause a hematoma. This is especially true if you're taking a blood-thinning medicine or an anti-platelet medicine, such as aspirin.
A head injury can cause an intracranial hematoma even if there's no open wound, bruise or other obvious damage.
What happens in the brain to cause bleeding varies based on the type of hematoma. There are three categories of hematoma — subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma and intracerebral hematoma. An intracerebral hematoma also is known as an intraparenchymal hematoma.
Risk Factors for Intracranial hematoma:
Intracranial hematomas can be caused by a head injury. Activities that increase the risk of a bad head injury, such as riding a motorcycle or bicycle without a helmet, also raise the risk of an intracranial hematoma.
The risk of a subdural hematoma increases with age. The risk also is greater for people who:
Take aspirin or another blood-thinning medicine daily.
Have alcohol use disorder.
Some conditions also may increase the risk of having an intracerebral hematoma. They include being born with poorly connected arteries and veins, and having a bulging blood vessel in the brain, known as an aneurysm. High blood pressure, tumors and some diseases also increase the risk.
There are no Complications available for Intracranial hematoma in the knowledge basePreventions for Intracranial hematoma
To prevent or minimize a head injury that may cause an intracranial hematoma:
Wear a helmet and make sure your kids wear helmets. Wear an appropriate and properly fitted helmet when doing any activity that could result in head injury. This includes while playing contact sports, bicycling, motorcycling, skiing, horseback riding, skating, skateboarding and snowboarding.
Buckle your seat belt and make sure your kids are buckled in. Do so every time you drive or ride in a motor vehicle.
Protect young children. Always use properly fitted car seats. Pad countertops and edges of tables, block stairways, and attach heavy furniture or appliances to the wall to prevent tipping. Keep children from climbing on objects that aren't safe or steady. Place safety gates on stairs and guards on windows.
Condition name:Intracranial venous malformations
Overview of Intracranial venous malformations:
Intracranial venous malformations are veins in the brain that are unusually large. These larger veins aren't likely to cause symptoms or affect how the veins work.
Some people may have an intracranial venous malformation that is never diagnosed and never causes symptoms. Sometimes, they're found by accident during a brain imaging test for another condition.
Intracranial venous malformations usually don't require treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Intracranial venous malformations in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Intracranial venous malformations :
Intracranial venous malformations may never cause symptoms. They are sometimes found by accident during brain imaging tests for another condition. If an intracranial venous malformation does cause symptoms, they may include:
Headaches.
Seizures.
Dizziness.
Nausea and vomiting.
Muscle weakness or paralysis.
Loss of coordination.
Vision troubles.
Difficulty speaking.
Memory problems.
Causes for Intracranial venous malformations :
Experts don't understand what causes intracranial venous malformations. Certain genetic changes might play a role, and the malformations may happen during fetal development. However, some types may not be inherited and are acquired later in life, possibly after an injury to the central nervous system.
Risk Factors for Intracranial venous malformations:
Having a family history of intracranial venous malformations can increase your risk. But most types aren't inherited.
Certain hereditary conditions can increase your risk of intracranial venous malformations. These include hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia, Sturge-Weber syndrome and Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome.
There are no Complications available for Intracranial venous malformations in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Intracranial venous malformations in the knowledge baseCondition name:Invasive lobular carcinoma
Overview of Invasive lobular carcinoma:
Invasive lobular carcinoma is a type of breast cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the milk-producing glands of the breast. These glands are called lobules.
Invasive cancer means that the cancer cells have broken out of the lobule where they began and spread into the breast tissue. The cells have the potential to spread to the lymph nodes and other areas of the body.
Invasive lobular carcinoma makes up a small portion of all breast cancers. The most common type of breast cancer begins in the breast ducts. This type is called invasive ductal carcinoma.
There are no home remedies available for Invasive lobular carcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Invasive lobular carcinoma :
At first, invasive lobular carcinoma may cause no signs and symptoms. As it grows larger, invasive lobular carcinoma may cause:
A change in the texture or appearance of the skin over the breast, such as dimpling or thickening.
A new area of fullness or swelling in the breast.
A newly inverted nipple.
An area of thickening in part of the breast.
Invasive lobular carcinoma is less likely to cause a firm or distinct breast lump than other types of breast cancer.
Causes for Invasive lobular carcinoma :
It's not clear what causes invasive lobular carcinoma.
This form of breast cancer begins when cells in one or more milk-producing glands of the breast develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
Invasive lobular carcinoma cells tend to invade breast tissue by spreading out rather than forming a firm lump. The affected area may have a different feel from the surrounding breast tissue. The area may feel more like a thickening and fullness, but it's unlikely to feel like a lump.
Risk Factors for Invasive lobular carcinoma:
Risk factors for invasive lobular carcinoma are thought to be similar to the risk factors for breast cancer in general. Factors that may increase the risk of breast cancer include:
A family history of breast cancer. If a parent, sibling or child had breast cancer, your risk of breast cancer is increased. The risk is higher if your family has a history of getting breast cancer at a young age. The risk also is higher if you have multiple family members with breast cancer. Still, most people diagnosed with breast cancer don't have a family history of the disease.
A personal history of breast cancer. If you've had cancer in one breast, you have an increased risk of getting cancer in the other breast.
A personal history of breast conditions. Certain breast conditions are signs that you have a higher risk of breast cancer. These conditions include lobular carcinoma in situ, also called LCIS, and atypical hyperplasia of the breast. If you've had a breast biopsy that found one of these conditions, you have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Beginning your period at a younger age. Beginning your period before age 12 increases your risk of breast cancer.
Beginning menopause at an older age. Beginning menopause after age 55 increases the risk of breast cancer.
Being female. Women are much more likely than men are to get breast cancer. Everyone is born with some breast tissue, so anyone can get breast cancer.
Dense breast tissue. Breast tissue is made up of fatty tissue and dense tissue. Dense tissue is made of milk glands, milk ducts and fibrous tissue. If you have dense breasts, you have more dense tissue than fatty tissue in your breasts. Having dense breasts can make it harder to detect breast cancer on a mammogram. If a mammogram showed that you have dense breasts, your risk of breast cancer is increased. Talk with your healthcare team about other tests you might have in addition to mammograms to look for breast cancer.
Drinking alcohol. Drinking alcohol increases the risk of breast cancer.
Having your first child at an older age. Giving birth to your first child after age 30 may increase the risk of breast cancer.
Having never been pregnant. Having been pregnant one or more times lowers the risk of breast cancer. Never having been pregnant increases the risk.
Inherited DNA changes that increase cancer risk. Certain DNA changes that increase the risk of breast cancer can be passed from parents to children. Two DNA changes associated with an increased risk of invasive lobular carcinoma include BRCA2 and CDH1. BRCA2 increases the risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer. CDH1 increases the risk of breast cancer and stomach cancer. CDH1 is closely associated with a rare inherited condition called hereditary diffuse gastric cancer syndrome.
Menopausal hormone therapy. Taking certain hormone therapy medicines to control the symptoms of menopause may increase the risk of breast cancer. The risk is linked to hormone therapy medicines that combine estrogen and progesterone. The risk goes down when you stop taking these medicines.
Obesity. People with obesity have an increased risk of breast cancer.
Older age. Your risk of breast cancer increases as you age. Invasive lobular carcinoma tends to happen at an older age compared to other types of breast cancer.
Radiation exposure. If you received radiation treatments to your chest as a child or young adult, your risk of breast cancer is higher.
There are no Complications available for Invasive lobular carcinoma in the knowledge basePreventions for Invasive lobular carcinoma
Making changes in your daily life may help lower your risk of invasive lobular carcinoma and other types of breast cancer. Try to:
Condition name:Iritis
Overview of Iritis:
Iritis (i-RYE-tis) is swelling and irritation (inflammation) in the colored ring around your eye's pupil (iris). Another name for iritis is anterior uveitis.
The uvea is the middle layer of the eye between the retina and the white part of the eye. The iris is located in the front portion (anterior) of the uvea.
Iritis is the most common type of uveitis. Uveitis is inflammation of part of or all of the uvea. The cause is often unknown. It can result from an underlying condition or genetic factor.
If untreated, iritis could lead to glaucoma or vision loss. See your doctor as soon as possible if you have symptoms of iritis.
There are no home remedies available for Iritis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Iritis :
Iritis can occur in one or both eyes. It usually develops suddenly, and can last up to three months.
Signs and symptoms of iritis include:
Eye redness
Discomfort or achiness in the affected eye
Sensitivity to light
Decreased vision
Iritis that develops suddenly, over hours or days, is known as acute iritis. Symptoms that develop gradually or last longer than three months indicate chronic iritis.
Causes for Iritis :
Often, the cause of iritis can't be determined. In some cases, iritis can be linked to eye trauma, genetic factors or certain diseases. Causes of iritis include:
Injury to the eye. Blunt force trauma, a penetrating injury, or a burn from a chemical or fire can cause acute iritis.
Infections. Viral infections on your face, such as cold sores and shingles caused by herpes viruses, can cause iritis.
Infectious diseases from other viruses and bacteria can also be linked to uveitis. For instance, they may include toxoplasmosis, an infection most often caused by a parasite in uncooked food; histoplasmosis, a lung infection that occurs when you inhale spores of fungus; tuberculosis, which happens when bacteria enters the lungs; and syphilis, which is caused by the spread of bacteria through sexual contact.
Genetic predisposition. People who develop certain autoimmune diseases because of a gene alteration that affects their immune systems might also develop acute iritis. Diseases include a type of arthritis called ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriatic arthritis.
Behcet's disease. An uncommon cause of acute iritis in Western countries, this condition is also characterized by joint problems, mouth sores and genital sores.
Juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Chronic iritis can develop in children with this condition.
Sarcoidosis. This autoimmune disease involves the growth of collections of inflammatory cells in areas of your body, including your eyes.
Certain medications. Some drugs, such as the antibiotic rifabutin (Mycobutin) and the antiviral medication cidofovir, that are used to treat HIV infections can be a rare cause of iritis. Rarely, bisphosphonates, used to treat osteoporosis, can cause uveitis. Stopping these medications usually stops the iritis symptoms.
Risk Factors for Iritis:
Your risk of developing iritis increases if you:
Have a specific genetic alteration. People with a specific change in a gene that's essential for healthy immune system function are more likely to develop iritis. This change is labeled HLA-B27.
Develop a sexually transmitted infection. Certain infections, such as syphilis or HIV/AIDS, are linked with a significant risk of iritis.
Have a weakened immune system or an autoimmune disorder. This includes conditions such as ankylosing spondylitis and reactive arthritis.
Smoke tobacco. Studies have shown that smoking contributes to your risk.
Complications for Iritis:
If not treated properly, iritis could lead to:
Cataracts. Development of a clouding of the lens of your eye (cataract) is a possible complication, especially if you've had a long period of inflammation.
An irregular pupil. Scar tissue can cause the iris to stick to the underlying lens or the cornea, making the pupil irregular in shape and the iris sluggish in its reaction to light.
Glaucoma. Recurrent iritis can result in glaucoma, a serious eye condition characterized by increased pressure inside the eye and possible vision loss.
Calcium deposits on the cornea. This causes degeneration of your cornea and could decrease your vision.
Swelling within the retina. Swelling and fluid-filled cysts that develop in the retina at the back of the eye can blur or decrease your central vision.
There are no preventive measures available for Iritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Irritable bowel syndrome
Overview of Irritable bowel syndrome:
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common condition that affects the stomach and intestines, also called the gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms include cramping, belly pain, bloating, gas, and diarrhea or constipation, or both. IBS is an ongoing condition that needs long-term management.
Only a small number of people with IBS have severe symptoms. Some people can control their symptoms by managing diet, lifestyle and stress. More-severe symptoms can be treated with medicine and counseling.
IBS doesn't cause changes in bowel tissue or increase risk of colorectal cancer.
Home Remedies for Irritable bowel syndrome:
Simple changes in your diet and lifestyle often provide relief from IBS. Your body typically needs time to respond to these changes. Try to:
Experiment with fiber. Fiber helps reduce constipation but also can worsen gas and cramping. Try slowly increasing the amount of fiber in your diet over a period of weeks with foods such as whole grains, fruits, vegetables and beans. A fiber supplement might cause less gas and bloating than fiber-rich foods.
Stay away from problem foods. Get rid of foods that trigger your symptoms.
Eat at regular times. Don't skip meals, and try to eat at about the same time each day to help regulate bowel function. If you have diarrhea, you may find that eating small, frequent meals makes you feel better. But if you're constipated, eating larger amounts of high-fiber foods may help move food through your intestines.
Exercise regularly. Exercise helps relieve depression and stress, stimulates contractions of your intestines, and can help you feel better about yourself. Ask a healthcare professional about an exercise program.
Symptoms for Irritable bowel syndrome :
Symptoms of IBS vary but are usually present for a long time. The most common include:
Belly pain, cramping or bloating that is related to passing stool.
Changes in appearance of stool.
Changes in how often you are passing stool.
Other symptoms that are often related include sensation of incomplete evacuation and increased gas or mucus in the stool.
Causes for Irritable bowel syndrome :
The exact cause of IBS isn't known. Factors that appear to play a role include:
Muscle contractions in the intestine. The walls of the intestines are lined with layers of muscle that contract as they move food through the digestive tract. Contractions that are stronger and last longer than usual can cause gas, bloating and diarrhea. Weak contractions can slow food passage and lead to hard, dry stools.
Nervous system. Issues with the nerves in the digestive system may cause discomfort when the belly area, called the abdomen, stretches from gas or stool. Poorly coordinated signals between the brain and the intestines can cause the body to overreact to changes that typically occur in the digestive process. This can result in pain, diarrhea or constipation.
Severe infection. IBS can develop after a severe bout of diarrhea caused by bacteria or a virus. This is called gastroenteritis. IBS also might be associated with a surplus of bacteria in the intestines, known as bacterial overgrowth.
Early-life stress. People exposed to stressful events, especially in childhood, tend to have more symptoms of IBS.
Changes in gut microbes. Examples include changes in bacteria, fungi and viruses, which typically live in the intestines and play a key role in health. Research indicates that the microbes in people with IBS might differ from those in people who don't have IBS.
Risk Factors for Irritable bowel syndrome:
Many people have occasional symptoms of IBS. But you're more likely to have the syndrome if you:
Are young. IBS occurs more often in people under age 50.
Are female. In the United States, IBS is more common among women. Estrogen therapy before or after menopause also is a risk factor for IBS.
Have a family history of IBS. Genes may play a role, as may shared factors in a family's environment or a combination of genes and environment.
Have anxiety, depression or other mental health issues. A history of sexual, physical or emotional abuse also might be a risk factor.
Complications for Irritable bowel syndrome:
Long-lasting constipation or diarrhea can cause hemorrhoids.
In addition, IBS is associated with:
Poor quality of life. Many people with moderate to severe IBS report poor quality of life. Research indicates that people with IBS miss three times as many days from work as do those without bowel symptoms.
Mood disorders. Experiencing the symptoms of IBS can lead to depression or anxiety. Depression and anxiety also can make IBS worse.
There are no preventive measures available for Irritable bowel syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ischemic colitis
Overview of Ischemic colitis:
Ischemic colitis occurs when blood flow to part of the large intestine is temporarily reduced. This segment of the large intestine is called the colon. This reduced blood flow may be caused by narrowing of the blood vessels supplying the colon. It also may be due to reduced blood flow caused by low blood pressure. The diminished blood flow doesn't provide enough oxygen for the cells in the digestive system. This can result in tissue damage to the affected area of the intestine.
Any part of the colon can be affected, but ischemic colitis most commonly causes pain on the left side of the belly area.
Ischemic colitis can be misdiagnosed because it can easily be confused with other digestive problems. You may need medicine to treat ischemic colitis or prevent infection. Or you may need surgery if your colon has been damaged. Most often, however, ischemic colitis heals on its own.
There are no home remedies available for Ischemic colitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ischemic colitis :
Symptoms of ischemic colitis can include:
Pain, tenderness or cramping in your belly, which can occur suddenly or happen over time
Bright red or maroon blood in your stool or, at times, passage of blood alone without stool
A feeling of urgency to move your bowels
Diarrhea
Nausea
The risk of severe complications is higher when you have symptoms on the right side of your belly. This is less commonly seen compared with left-sided colitis. People with right-sided colitis tend to have more underlying medical problems, such as high blood pressure, atrial fibrillation and kidney disease. They more frequently have to undergo surgery and also have a higher risk of death.
Causes for Ischemic colitis :
The precise cause of diminished blood flow to the colon isn't always clear. But several factors can increase your risk of ischemic colitis:
Buildup of fatty deposits on the walls of an artery, also called atherosclerosis
Low blood pressure, also called hypotension, associated with dehydration, heart failure, surgery, trauma or shock
Bowel obstruction caused by a hernia, scar tissue or a tumor
Surgery involving the heart or blood vessels, or the digestive or gynecological systems
Other medical disorders that affect your blood, such as inflammation of the blood vessels, called vasculitis, lupus or sickle cell anemia
Cocaine or methamphetamine use
Colon cancer, which is rare
Risk Factors for Ischemic colitis:
Risk factors for ischemic colitis include:
Age. The condition occurs mostly frequently in adults older than age 60. Ischemic colitis that occurs in a young adult may be a sign of a blood-clotting irregularity. Or it also may be due to inflammation of the blood vessels, also known as vasculitis.
Sex. Ischemic colitis is more common in women.
Clotting problems. Conditions that affect the way the blood clots, such as factor V Leiden, may increase the risk of ischemic colitis.
High cholesterol, which can lead to atherosclerosis.
Reduced blood flow, due to heart failure, low blood pressure or shock. It may also be caused by certain conditions, such as diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis.
Previous abdominal surgery. Scar tissue that forms after surgery may cause reduced blood flow.
Heavy exercise, such as marathon running, which can lead to reduced blood flow to the colon.
Surgery involving the large artery that pumps blood from your heart to the rest of your body. This artery is called the aorta.
Complications for Ischemic colitis:
Ischemic colitis usually gets better on its own within 2 to 3 days. In more-severe cases, complications can include:
Tissue death, also called gangrene, resulting from diminished blood flow
Hole formation, also known as perforation, in the intestine or persistent bleeding
Bowel obstruction, also called ischemic stricture
Preventions for Ischemic colitis
Since the cause of ischemic colitis isn't always clear, there's no certain way to prevent the disorder. Most people who have ischemic colitis recover quickly and may never have another episode.
To prevent recurrent episodes of ischemic colitis, some doctors recommend stopping any medicine that might cause the condition. Making sure to stay adequately hydrated, especially when doing vigorous outdoor activities, is also important — especially for those living in warm climates. A test for clotting problems may be recommended as well, especially if no other cause for ischemic colitis is apparent.
Condition name:Itchy skin (pruritus)
Overview of Itchy skin (pruritus):
Itchy skin is an irritating sensation that makes you want to scratch. It's also called pruritus (proo-RIE-tus). Itchy skin is often caused by dry skin and is common in older adults, as skin tends to become drier with age.
Depending on the cause of your itchiness, your skin may look no different than usual or it may be inflamed, rough or have bumps. Repeated scratching can cause raised thick areas of skin that might bleed or become infected.
Many people find relief with self-care measures such as moisturizers, gentle cleansers and lukewarm baths. Long-term relief requires identifying and treating the cause of itchy skin. Common treatments are medicated creams, moist dressings and anti-itch medicines taken by mouth.
Home Remedies for Itchy skin (pruritus):
Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Moisturizer tips from a dermatologist
For temporary relief of itching, try these self-care measures:
Avoid items or situations that cause you to itch. Try to identify what's causing your symptoms and avoid it. This might be wool clothing, an overly heated room, too many hot baths or exposure to a cleaning product.
Moisturize daily. Apply hypoallergenic and fragrance-free moisturizer (Cetaphil, others) to affected skin at least once a day. For dry skin, thicker creams and ointments work better than lotions.
Treat the scalp. For a dry, itchy scalp, try nonprescription medicated shampoos containing zinc pyrithione (Head & Shoulders, others), ketoconazole (Nizoral, others), selenium sulfide (Selsun Blue, others) or coal tar (Neutrogena T/Gel, others). You might need to try a few products before finding one that works for your hair and condition. Or you may find that switching between products helps. Don't use a medicated shampoo right after having a chemical relaxing process â€” rather, use a neutralizing shampoo.
Use creams, lotions or gels that soothe and cool the skin. Short-term use of nonprescription corticosteroid cream may offer short-term relief of itchy, inflamed skin. Or try calamine lotion or creams with menthol (Sarna, others), camphor, capsaicin, or a topical anesthetic, such as pramoxine (adults only). Keeping these products in the refrigerator can enhance their soothing effect. Corticosteroid creams do not help with the itch that follows a shingles infection.
Avoid scratching. Cover the itchy area if you can't keep from scratching it. Trim your nails and, if it helps, wear gloves when you sleep.
Take a bath. Use lukewarm water and sprinkle in about a half cup (100 grams) of Epsom salts, baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno, others). Use a mild cleanser (Dove, Olay, Cetaphil), limiting its use to the underarms and groin. Don't scrub too hard and limit your bathing time. Then rinse thoroughly, pat dry and moisturize.
Reduce stress or anxiety. Stress or anxiety can worsen itching. Many people have found that counseling, behavior modification therapy, acupuncture, meditation and yoga can help reduce stress or anxiety.
Try nonprescription oral allergy medicine. Some nonprescription allergy medicines (antihistamines), such as diphenhydramine, can make you drowsy. This type of pill might be helpful before bedtime if your itchy skin disrupts your sleep. Antihistamines do not help with the itch that follows a shingles infection.
Use a humidifier. A humidifier may provide some relief if home heating causes the air in your home to be dry.
Stay well rested. Getting enough sleep might reduce the risk of itchy skin.
Symptoms for Itchy skin (pruritus) :
Itchy skin can affect small areas, such as the scalp, an arm or a leg. Or it can cover the whole body. Itchy skin can occur without any other noticeable changes on the skin. Or it may come with:
Inflamed skin
Scratch marks
Bumps, spots or blisters
Dry, cracked skin
Leathery or scaly patches
Sometimes itchiness lasts a long time and can be intense. As you rub or scratch the area, it gets itchier. And the more it itches, the more you scratch. Breaking this itch-scratch cycle can be difficult.
Causes for Itchy skin (pruritus) :
Causes of itchy skin include:
Skin conditions. Examples include dry skin (xerosis), eczema (dermatitis), psoriasis, scabies, parasites, burns, scars, insect bites and hives.
Internal diseases. Itching on the whole body might be a symptom of an underlying illness, such as liver disease, kidney disease, anemia, diabetes, thyroid problems and certain cancers.
Nerve disorders. Examples include multiple sclerosis, pinched nerves and shingles (herpes zoster).
Psychiatric conditions. Examples include anxiety, obsessive-compulsive disorder and depression.
Irritation and allergic reactions. Wool, chemicals, soaps and other things can irritate the skin and cause rashes and itching. Sometimes a substance, such as poison ivy or cosmetics, causes an allergic reaction. Also, reactions to certain medicines, such as narcotics to treat pain (opioids) can cause itchy skin.
Sometimes the cause of the itching can't be determined.
Risk Factors for Itchy skin (pruritus):
Anyone can develop itchy skin. But you may be more likely to develop it if you:
Have a condition that can cause itching, such as dermatitis, kidney disease, anemia or thyroid disease.
Are an older adult, as skin can become drier with age.
Complications for Itchy skin (pruritus):
Itchy skin that is severe or lasts more than six weeks can affect the quality of your life. This type is called chronic pruritus. It might disturb your sleep or cause anxiety or depression. Prolonged itching and scratching can increase the intensity of the itch, possibly leading to skin injury, infection and scarring.
There are no preventive measures available for Itchy skin (pruritus) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Jaw tumors and cysts
Overview of Jaw tumors and cysts:
Jaw tumors and cysts are relatively rare growths or lesions that develop in the jawbone or the soft tissues in the mouth and face. Jaw tumors and cysts — sometimes referred to as odontogenic or nonodontogenic, depending on their origin — can vary greatly in size and severity. These growths are usually noncancerous (benign), but they can be aggressive and expand, displace or destroy the surrounding bone, tissue and teeth.
Treatment options for jaw tumors and cysts vary, depending on the type of growth or lesion you have, the stage of growth, and your symptoms. Mouth, jaw and face (oral and maxillofacial) surgeons can treat your jaw tumor or cyst usually by surgery, or in some cases, by medical therapy or a combination of surgery and medical therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Jaw tumors and cysts in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Jaw tumors and cysts :
A tumor is an abnormal growth or mass of tissue. A cyst is a lesion that contains liquid or semisolid material. Examples of jaw tumors and cysts include:
Ameloblastoma. This rare, usually noncancerous (benign) tumor begins in the cells that form the protective enamel lining on the teeth. It develops most often in the jaw near the molars. The most common type is aggressive, forming large tumors and growing into the jawbone. Although this tumor can recur after treatment, aggressive surgical treatment will typically reduce the chance of recurrence.
Central giant cell granuloma. Central giant cell granulomas are benign lesions that grow from bone cells. They most often occur in the front portion of the lower jaw. One type of these tumors can grow rapidly, cause pain and destroy bone, and has a tendency to recur after surgical treatment. The other type is less aggressive and may not have symptoms. Rarely, a tumor may shrink or resolve on its own, but typically these tumors require surgical treatment.
Dentigerous cyst. This cyst originates from tissue that surrounds a tooth before it erupts into the mouth. This is the most common form of cyst that affects the jaws. Most often these cysts will occur around wisdom teeth that are not fully erupted, but they can also involve other teeth.
Odontogenic keratocyst. This cyst is also referred to as a keratocystic odontogenic tumor because of its tumorlike tendency to recur after surgical treatment. Although this cyst is typically slow growing, it can still be destructive to the jaw and teeth if left untreated over a long period of time. Most often the cyst develops in the lower jaw near the third molars. These cysts may also be found in people with an inherited condition called nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
Odontogenic myxoma. This is a rare, slow-growing, benign tumor that occurs most often in the lower jaw. The tumor can be large and aggressively invade the jaw and surrounding tissue and displace teeth. Odontogenic myxomas are known to recur after surgical treatment; however, the chances of tumor recurrence are typically lessened by more-aggressive forms of surgical treatment.
Odontoma. This benign tumor is the most common odontogenic tumor. Odontomas often have no symptoms, but they may interfere with tooth development or eruption. Odontomas are made up of dental tissue that grows around a tooth in the jaw. They can resemble an oddly shaped tooth or can be a small or large calcified tumor. These tumors may be part of some genetic syndromes.
Other types of cysts and tumors. These include adenomatoid odontogenic tumor, calcifying epithelial odontogenic tumor, glandular odontogenic cyst, squamous odontogenic tumor, calcifying odontogenic cyst, cementoblastoma, aneurysmal bone cyst, ossifying fibroma, osteoblastoma. central odontogenic fibroma and others.
Causes for Jaw tumors and cysts :
Odontogenic jaw tumors and cysts originate from cells and tissues that are involved in normal tooth development. Other tumors that affect the jaws can be nonodontogenic, meaning that they can develop from other tissues within the jaws that are not related to the teeth, such as bone or soft tissue cells. Generally, the cause of jaw tumors and cysts is not known; however, some are associated with gene changes (mutations) or genetic syndromes.
People with nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome, also called Gorlin-Goltz syndrome, lack a gene that suppresses tumors. The genetic mutation that causes the syndrome is inherited. This syndrome results in the development of multiple odontogenic keratocysts within the jaws, multiple basal cell skin cancers and other characteristics.
There are no Risk Factors available for Jaw tumors and cysts in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Jaw tumors and cysts in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Jaw tumors and cysts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Jellyfish stings
Overview of Jellyfish stings:
Jellyfish stings are fairly common problems for people swimming, wading or diving in oceans. The long tentacles trailing from the jellyfish can inject venom from thousands of microscopic barbed stingers.
Most often jellyfish stings cause instant pain and inflamed marks on the skin. Some stings may cause more whole-body (systemic) illness. And in rare cases they're life-threatening.
Most jellyfish stings get better over a few days or weeks with home treatment. Severe reactions likely need emergency medical care.
There are no home remedies available for Jellyfish stings in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Jellyfish stings :
Symptoms of jellyfish stings include:
Burning, prickling, stinging pain
Welts or tracks on the skin — a "print" of the tentacles' contact with the skin
Itchiness (pruritus)
Swelling
Throbbing pain that radiates up a leg or an arm
Severe jellyfish stings can affect multiple body systems. These reactions may appear rapidly or several hours after the stings. Symptoms of severe jellyfish stings include:
Stomach pain, nausea and vomiting
Headache
Muscle pain or spasms
Faintness, dizziness or confusion
Difficulty breathing
Heart problems
The severity of a reaction depends on:
The type and size of the jellyfish
The age, size and health of the person affected, with severe reactions more likely in children
How long the person was exposed to the stingers
How much of the skin is affected
Causes for Jellyfish stings :
Jellyfish stings are caused by brushing against a jellyfish tentacle. Tentacles have thousands of microscopic barbed stingers. Each stinger has a tiny bulb that holds venom and a coiled, sharp-tipped tube.
When you brush against a tentacle, tiny triggers on its surface release the stingers. The tube pierces the skin and releases venom. It affects the area of contact and may enter the bloodstream.
Jellyfish that have washed up on a beach may still release venomous stingers if touched.
Risk Factors for Jellyfish stings:
Conditions that increase the risk of jellyfish stings:
Swimming when jellyfish appear in large numbers (a jellyfish bloom)
Swimming or diving in jellyfish areas without protective clothing
Playing or sunbathing where jellyfish are washed up on the beach
Swimming in a place known to have many jellyfish
Complications for Jellyfish stings:
Possible complications of a jellyfish sting include:
Delayed skin reaction, causing blisters, rash or other irritation
Irukandji syndrome, which causes chest and stomach pain, high blood pressure, and heart problems
Preventions for Jellyfish stings
The following tips can help you avoid jellyfish stings:
Wear a protective suit. When swimming or diving in areas where jellyfish stings are possible, wear a wet suit or other protective clothing. Diving stores sell protective "skin suits" or "stinger suits" made of thin, high-tech fabric. Consider protective footwear, as stings can also occur while wading in shallow water.
Get information about conditions. Talk to lifeguards, local residents or officials with a local health department before swimming or diving in coastal waters, especially in areas where jellyfish are common.
Avoid water during jellyfish season. Stay out of the water in jellyfish areas when jellyfish numbers are high.
Condition name:Jet lag disorder
Overview of Jet lag disorder:
Jet lag, also called jet lag disorder, is a temporary sleep problem that can affect anyone who quickly travels across several time zones.
Your body has its own internal clock, called circadian rhythms. They signal to your body when to stay awake and when to sleep.
Jet lag occurs because your body's internal clock is synced to your original time zone. It hasn't changed to the time zone of where you've traveled. The more time zones crossed, the more likely you are to experience jet lag.
Jet lag can cause daytime fatigue, an unwell feeling, trouble staying alert and stomach problems. Although symptoms are temporary, they can affect your comfort while on vacation or during a business trip. But you can take steps to help prevent or lessen the effects of jet lag.
Home Remedies for Jet lag disorder:
Sunlight
Being exposed to sunlight helps reset your internal clock. It's the most powerful natural tool for regulating the sleep-wake cycle.
Morning light exposure can usually help you adjust to an earlier time zone after traveling east. Evening light helps you adapt to a later time zone after traveling west.
Plan ahead to determine the best times for light exposure based on your departure and destination points and overall sleep habits:
Before your trip. You can start light therapy up to three days before traveling to help you adjust to the new time zone once you arrive. If you're traveling east, try waking one hour earlier than your usual wake time and get at least one hour of light exposure. Do this daily until you leave for your trip, waking one hour earlier each day. Also adjust your bedtime to one hour earlier each night if possible. For westward travel, delay your wake and bedtimes.
At your destination. If you've traveled east and crossed 3 to 5 time zones, try avoiding bright daylight first thing in the morning. Try to get several hours of bright light exposure in mid- to late morning.
If you're crossing more time zones or traveling west, avoid bright light the morning of arrival but seek sunshine in the early afternoon. During the day, dark glasses can help block out light when you need to avoid exposure. At night, draw the window blinds or drapes or use a sleep mask. For each day on your trip, gradually shift your light exposure earlier.
Combining light exposure with exercise such as walking or jogging may help you adapt to the new time even faster.
Caffeine
Beverages with caffeine such as coffee, espresso and soft drinks may help offset daytime sleepiness. Choose drinks with caffeine wisely. Don't have caffeine after midday since it may make it even harder to fall asleep or sleep well.
Symptoms for Jet lag disorder :
Symptoms of jet lag can vary. You may experience only one symptom or you may have many. Jet lag symptoms may include:
Sleep problems such as not being able to fall asleep or waking up early.
Daytime fatigue.
Not being able to focus or function at your usual level.
Stomach problems such as constipation or diarrhea.
A general feeling of not being well.
Mood changes.
There are no Causes available for Jet lag disorder in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Jet lag disorder:
Factors that increase the likelihood you'll experience jet lag include:
Number of time zones crossed. The more time zones you cross, the more likely you are to feel jet lag.
Flying east. You may find it harder to fly east, when you "lose" time, than to fly west, when you "gain" time.
Being a frequent flyer. Pilots, flight attendants and business travelers are most likely to experience jet lag.
Being an older adult. Older adults may need more time to recover from jet lag.
Complications for Jet lag disorder:
Auto accidents caused by drowsy driving may be more likely in people who are jet-lagged.
Preventions for Jet lag disorder
A few basic steps may help prevent jet lag or reduce its effects:
Arrive early. If you have an important meeting or other event that requires you to be in top form, try to arrive a few days early to give your body a chance to adjust.
Get plenty of rest before your trip. Starting out sleep deprived makes jet lag worse.
Gradually adjust your schedule before you leave. If you're traveling east, try going to bed one hour earlier each night for a few days before your trip. If you're flying west, go to bed one hour later for several nights before you fly. If possible, eat meals closer to the time you'll be eating them during your trip.
Properly time bright light exposure. Light exposure is a prime influence on your body's circadian rhythms. After traveling west, expose yourself to light in the evening to help you adjust to a later than usual time zone. After traveling east, expose yourself to morning light to adapt to an earlier time zone.
The one exception is if you've traveled across more than eight time zones. Your body might mistake early-morning light for evening dusk. It also might mistake evening light for early-morning light.
So if you've traveled more than eight time zones to the east, wear sunglasses and avoid bright light in the morning. Then allow as much sunlight as possible in the late afternoon for the first few days in your new location.
If you've traveled west by more than eight time zones, avoid sunlight a few hours before dark for the first few days to adjust to the local time.
Stay on your new schedule. Set your watch or phone to the new time before you leave. Once you reach your destination, try not to sleep until the local nighttime, no matter how tired you are. Try to time your meals with local mealtimes too.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of water before, during and after your flight to counteract the effects of dry cabin air. Dehydration can make jet lag symptoms worse. Avoid alcohol and caffeine, as these can dehydrate you and affect your sleep.
Try to sleep on the plane if it's nighttime at your destination. Earplugs, headphones and eye masks can help block noise and light. If it's daytime where you're going, resist the urge to sleep.
Condition name:Jock itch
Overview of Jock itch:
Jock itch is a fungal skin infection that causes an itchy rash in warm, moist areas of the body. The rash often affects the groin and inner thighs and may be shaped like a ring. The condition is also called tinea cruris.
Jock itch gets its name because it's common in athletes. It's also common in people who sweat a lot. The condition can range from mild to serious. It usually clears up in 1 to 3 weeks with antifungal creams and self care.
There are no home remedies available for Jock itch in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Jock itch :
Symptoms of jock itch are:
A spreading rash that begins in the crease of the groin and moves down the upper thigh and buttocks.
A rash whose center tends to clear as the rash spreads.
A rash that may be full or partially ring shaped.
A rash bordered with small blisters.
Itchiness.
Scaly skin.
A rash that might be red, brown, purple or gray depending on your skin color.
Causes for Jock itch :
Jock itch is caused by fungi that thrive in warm, moist areas of the body. Jock itch is often caused by the same organism that causes athlete's foot. The rash can spread from person to person with skin contact or from sharing contaminated towels or clothing. You can also spread an infection from the foot to groin by way of the hands or a towel.
Risk Factors for Jock itch:
You're at greater risk of jock itch if you:
Are male.
Are a teen or young adult.
Wear underwear, jeans or other clothing that's tight.
Sweat heavily.
Have a weak immune system.
Have athlete's foot.
There are no Complications available for Jock itch in the knowledge basePreventions for Jock itch
Tips for reducing the risk of jock itch include:
Stay dry. Keep the groin area and inner thighs dry by drying with a clean towel after showering or exercising. Dry your feet last to avoid spreading athlete's foot to the groin area.
Wear clean clothes. Change your underwear at least once a day or more often if you sweat a lot. It helps to wear underwear made of cotton or other fabric that breathes and keeps the skin drier. Wash workout clothes after each use.
Find the correct fit. Choose underwear, athletic supporters and sports uniforms that fit well. Tight-fitting clothes can chafe your skin and up the risk of jock itch. Try wearing boxer shorts rather than briefs.
Don't share personal items. Don't let others use your clothing, towels or other personal items. Don't borrow such items from others.
Treat or prevent athlete's foot. Control athlete's foot to prevent its spread to the groin. Prevent athlete's foot by wearing waterproof footwear around public pools and in showers and locker rooms.
Condition name:Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Overview of Juvenile idiopathic arthritis:
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis, formerly known as juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, is the most common type of arthritis in children under the age of 16.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis can cause persistent joint pain, swelling and stiffness. Some children may experience symptoms for only a few months, while others have symptoms for many years.
Some types of juvenile idiopathic arthritis can cause serious complications, such as growth problems, joint damage and eye inflammation. Treatment focuses on controlling pain and inflammation, improving function, and preventing damage.
Home Remedies for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis:
Caregivers can help children learn self-care techniques that help limit the effects of juvenile idiopathic arthritis. Techniques include:
Getting regular exercise. Exercise is important because it promotes both muscle strength and joint flexibility. Swimming is an excellent choice because it places minimal stress on joints.
Applying cold or heat. Stiffness affects many children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, particularly in the morning. Some children respond well to cold packs, particularly after activity. However, most children prefer warmth, such as a hot pack or a hot bath or shower, especially in the morning.
Eating well. Some children with arthritis have poor appetites. Others may gain excess weight due to medications or physical inactivity. A healthy diet can help maintain an appropriate body weight.
Adequate calcium in the diet is important because children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis are at risk of developing weak bones due to the disease, the use of corticosteroids, and decreased physical activity and weight bearing.
Symptoms for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis :
The most common signs and symptoms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis are:
Pain. While your child might not complain of joint pain, you may notice that he or she limps — especially first thing in the morning or after a nap.
Swelling. Joint swelling is common but is often first noticed in larger joints such as the knee.
Stiffness. You might notice that your child appears clumsier than usual, particularly in the morning or after naps.
Fever, swollen lymph nodes and rash. In some cases, high fever, swollen lymph nodes or a rash on the trunk may occur — which is usually worse in the evenings.
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis can affect one joint or many. There are several different subtypes of juvenile idiopathic arthritis, but the main ones are systemic, oligoarticular and polyarticular. Which type your child has depends on symptoms, the number of joints affected, and if a fever and rashes are prominent features.
Like other forms of arthritis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis is characterized by times when symptoms flare up and times when symptoms may be minimal.
Causes for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis :
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis occurs when the body's immune system attacks its own cells and tissues. It's not known why this happens, but both heredity and environment seem to play a role.
Risk Factors for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis:
Some forms of juvenile idiopathic arthritis are more common in girls.
Complications for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis:
Several serious complications can result from juvenile idiopathic arthritis. But keeping a careful watch on your child's condition and seeking appropriate medical attention can greatly reduce the risk of these complications:
Eye problems. Some forms can cause eye inflammation. If this condition is left untreated, it may result in cataracts, glaucoma and even blindness.
Eye inflammation frequently occurs without symptoms, so it's important for children with this condition to be examined regularly by an ophthalmologist.
Growth problems. Juvenile idiopathic arthritis can interfere with your child's growth and bone development. Some medications used for treatment, mainly corticosteroids, also can inhibit growth.
There are no preventive measures available for Juvenile idiopathic arthritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Kaposi sarcoma
Overview of Kaposi sarcoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Kaposi sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kaposi sarcoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Kaposi sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Kaposi sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Kaposi sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Kaposi sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Kawasaki disease
Overview of Kawasaki disease:
Kawasaki disease causes swelling, called inflammation, in the walls of small to medium-sized blood vessels that carry blood throughout the body. Kawasaki disease most often affects the heart arteries in children. Those arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to the heart.
Kawasaki disease is sometimes called mucocutaneous lymph node syndrome. That's because it also causes swelling in glands, called lymph nodes, and mucous membranes inside the mouth, nose, eyes and throat.
Children with Kawasaki disease might have high fever, swollen hands and feet with skin peeling, and red eyes and tongue. But Kawasaki disease is often treatable. With early treatment, most children get better and have no long-lasting problems.
There are no home remedies available for Kawasaki disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kawasaki disease :
Symptoms of Kawasaki disease include a fever greater than 102.2 degrees Fahrenheit (39 degrees Celsius) for five or more days. And the child has at least four of the following symptoms.
A rash on the main part of the body or in the genital area.
An enlarged lymph node in the neck.
Very red eyes without a thick discharge.
Red, dry, cracked lips and a red, swollen tongue.
Swollen, red skin on the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. Later the skin on fingers and toes peels.
The symptoms might not happen at the same time. Let your child's healthcare professional know about a symptom that has gone away.
Other symptoms might include:
Belly pain.
Diarrhea.
Fussiness.
Joint pain.
Vomiting.
Some children get a high fever for five or more days but have fewer than four of the symptoms needed for a diagnosis of Kawasaki disease. They might have what's called incomplete Kawasaki disease. Children with incomplete Kawasaki disease are still at risk of damage to the heart arteries. They still need treatment within 10 days of when symptoms appear.
Kawasaki disease can have symptoms like those of a condition called multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children. The syndrome happens in children with COVID-19.
Causes for Kawasaki disease :
No one knows what causes Kawasaki disease. But experts don't believe the disease spreads from person to person. Some think that Kawasaki disease happens after a bacterial or viral infection, or that it's linked to factors in the environment. Certain genes might make children more likely to get Kawasaki disease.
Risk Factors for Kawasaki disease:
Three things are known to increase a child's risk of developing Kawasaki disease.
Age. Children under 5 years old are at highest risk of Kawasaki disease.
Sex. Children who are assigned male at birth are slightly more likely to get Kawasaki disease.
Ethnicity. Children of Asian or Pacific Islander descent have higher rates of Kawasaki disease.
Kawasaki disease tends to occur seasonally. In North America and countries with like climates, it most often happens in the winter and early spring.
Complications for Kawasaki disease:
Kawasaki disease is a leading cause of heart disease in children who live in developed countries. But, with treatment, few children have lasting damage.
Heart complications include:
Swelling of blood vessels, most often the arteries that send blood to the heart.
Swelling of the heart muscle.
Heart valve problems.
Any of these complications can damage the heart. Swelling of the heart arteries can weaken them and cause a bulge in the artery wall, called an aneurysm. Aneurysms raise the risk of blood clots. These can lead to a heart attack or cause bleeding inside the body.
Rarely, for children who get heart artery problems, Kawasaki disease can cause death.
There are no preventive measures available for Kawasaki disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Keloid scar
Overview of Keloid scar:
A keloid scar is a thick raised scar. It can occur wherever you have a skin injury but usually forms on earlobes, shoulders, cheeks or the chest. If you're prone to developing keloids, you might get them in more than one place.
A keloid scar isn't harmful to your physical health, but it can cause emotional distress. Prevention or early treatment is key.
Keloid scar treatment is possible. If you don't like how a keloid looks or feels, talk with a doctor about how to flatten or remove it. Even with treatment, a keloid can last for years or recur.
Home Remedies for Keloid scar:
Try these keloid self-care tips:
Care for your wound as directed. Wound care can be time-consuming, and compression dressings can be uncomfortable. Try to stick with the routine recommended by your doctor, as these steps are important to keloid prevention.
Apply a corticosteroid cream. This type of nonprescription cream can help ease itchiness.
Apply silicone gel. Applying nonprescription silicone gel can help ease itchiness.
Protect the area from re-injury. Avoid irritating the keloid with clothing or other types of friction or injury.
Protect your skin from the sun. Sun exposure might change the color of your keloid, making it more noticeable. That change might be permanent. Before going outside, protect your skin by covering the keloid or by liberally applying sunscreen.
Symptoms for Keloid scar :
A keloid scar may form within months to years of the inciting injury. Signs and symptoms might include:
Thick, irregular scarring, typically on the earlobes, shoulders, cheeks or middle chest
Shiny, hairless, lumpy, raised skin
Varied size, depending on the size of the original injury and when the keloid stops growing
Varied texture, from soft to firm and rubbery
Reddish, brown or purplish, depending on your skin color
Itchiness
Discomfort
Causes for Keloid scar :
Experts don't completely understand what causes keloid scars. But most agree it's likely a dysfunction of the wound-healing process. Collagen — a protein found throughout the body — is useful to wound healing, but when the body produces too much, keloids can form.
Keloid growth might be triggered by any sort of skin injury — an insect bite, acne, an injection, body piercing, burns, hair removal, and even minor scratches and bumps. Sometimes keloids form for no obvious reason.
Keloids aren't contagious or cancerous.
A keloid is different from a hypertrophic scar. A hypertrophic scar stays within the bounds of the original wound and can fade over time without treatment.
Risk Factors for Keloid scar:
Risk factors for keloids include:
Having brown or Black skin. Keloids are most common in people with brown or Black skin. The reason for this predisposition is unknown.
Having a personal or family history of keloids. Keloids can run in families, indicating that the tendency might be inherited. If you've had one keloid, you're at risk of developing others.
Being under 30. You're more likely to develop a keloid if you're between the ages of 20 and 30.
Complications for Keloid scar:
Keloids located on a joint might develop hard, tight tissue that restricts movement.
Preventions for Keloid scar
If you're prone to developing keloids, take these preventive self-care tips:
Practice good wound care. Keep a wound clean and moist. Gently wash the area with mild soap and water. Apply a thin layer of petrolatum jelly (Vaseline, Aquaphor) or other ointment. Reapply the ointment throughout the day as needed. Your doctor might recommend applying a pressure pad or a silicone gel pad to a wound while it's healing. Adults need to take these preventive steps for six months after skin injury, and children up to 18 months.
Applying pressure earrings to your earlobes after an ear piercing helps prevent keloids.
Protect your skin from injury. Try to avoid injuring your skin. Consider not getting body piercings, tattoos and elective surgeries. Even minor injuries — such as ingrown hairs, cuts and scratches — can incite a keloid to grow.
If you decide to undergo surgery, talk with your doctor about your tendency to develop keloids. Your doctor can use surgical techniques that reduce the risk of developing keloids at the surgical site. After surgery, ask your doctor about postoperative care and follow the instructions carefully.
Condition name:Keratitis
Overview of Keratitis:
Keratitis is an inflammation of the cornea — the clear, dome-shaped tissue on the front of your eye that covers the pupil and iris. Keratitis may or may not be associated with an infection. Noninfectious keratitis can be caused by a relatively minor injury, such as from wearing your contact lenses too long or getting a foreign body in the eye. Infectious keratitis can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites.
If you have eye redness or other symptoms of keratitis, make an appointment to see an eye specialist. With prompt attention, mild to moderate cases of keratitis can usually be effectively treated without loss of vision. If left untreated, or if an infection is severe, keratitis can lead to serious complications that may permanently damage your vision.
There are no home remedies available for Keratitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Keratitis :
Symptoms of keratitis include:
Eye redness
Eye pain
Excess tears or other discharge from your eye
Difficulty opening your eyelid because of pain or irritation
Blurred vision
Decreased vision
Sensitivity to light, called photophobia
A feeling that something is in your eye
Causes for Keratitis :
Causes of keratitis include:
Injury. If any object scratches or injures the surface of your cornea, noninfectious keratitis may result. In addition, an injury may allow microorganisms to gain access to the damaged cornea, causing infectious keratitis.
Bacteria, fungi or parasites. These organisms may live on the surface of a contact lens or contact lens carrying case. The cornea may become contaminated when the lens is in your eye, resulting in infectious keratitis. Poor contact lens hygiene or contact lens overwear can cause both noninfectious and infectious keratitis.
Viruses. The herpes viruses — herpes simplex and herpes zoster — may cause keratitis.
Bacteria. Staphylococcus, streptococcus and pseudomonas are common bacteria involved in keratitis.
Contaminated water. Bacteria, fungi and parasites in water — particularly in oceans, rivers, lakes and hot tubs — can enter your eyes when you're swimming and result in keratitis. However, even if you're exposed to these organisms, a healthy cornea is unlikely to become infected unless there has been some previous breakdown of the corneal surface — for example, from wearing a contact lens too long.
Risk Factors for Keratitis:
Factors that may increase your risk of keratitis include:
Contact lenses. Wearing contact lenses — especially sleeping in the lenses —increases your risk of both infectious and noninfectious keratitis. The risk typically stems from wearing them longer than recommended, improper disinfection or wearing contact lenses while swimming.
Keratitis is more common in people who use extended-wear contacts, or wear contacts continuously, than in those who use daily wear contacts and take them out at night.
Reduced immunity. If your immune system is weakened due to disease or medications, you're at higher risk of developing keratitis.
Corticosteroids. Use of corticosteroid eye drops to treat an eye disorder can increase your risk of developing infectious keratitis or make existing keratitis worse.
Eye injury. If one of your corneas has been damaged from an injury in the past, you may be more vulnerable to developing keratitis.
Complications for Keratitis:
Potential complications of keratitis include:
Chronic corneal inflammation and scarring
Chronic or recurrent viral infections of your cornea
Open sores on your cornea, called corneal ulcers
Temporary or permanent reduction in your vision
Blindness
There are no preventive measures available for Keratitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Keratoconus
Overview of Keratoconus:
Keratoconus (ker-uh-toe-KOH-nus) is an eye condition in which your cornea — the clear, dome-shaped front of your eye — gets thinner and gradually bulges outward into a cone shape.
A cone-shaped cornea causes blurred vision and may cause sensitivity to light and glare. Keratoconus usually affects both eyes. However, it can affect one eye more than the other. It generally begins to affect people between the late teens and 30 years of age. The condition may progress slowly for 10 years or longer.
In the early stages of keratoconus, you might be able to correct vision problems with glasses or soft contact lenses. Later, you may have to be fitted with rigid, gas permeable contact lenses or other types of lenses, such as scleral lenses. If your condition gets worse, you may need a cornea transplant.
A procedure called corneal collagen cross-linking may help to slow or stop keratoconus from progressing, possibly preventing the need for a future cornea transplant. This treatment may be offered in addition to the vision correction options above.
There are no home remedies available for Keratoconus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Keratoconus :
Symptoms of keratoconus may change as the disease progresses. They include:
Blurred or distorted vision.
Increased sensitivity to bright light and glare, which can cause problems with night driving.
A need for frequent changes in eyeglass prescriptions.
Sudden worsening or clouding of vision.
Causes for Keratoconus :
No one knows what causes keratoconus, although genetic and environmental factors are thought to be involved. Around 1 in 10 people with keratoconus also has a parent with the condition.
Risk Factors for Keratoconus:
These factors can increase your chances of developing keratoconus:
Having a family history of keratoconus.
Rubbing your eyes vigorously.
Having certain conditions, such as retinitis pigmentosa, Down syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Marfan syndrome, hay fever and asthma.
Complications for Keratoconus:
In some situations, your cornea may swell quickly and cause sudden reduced vision and scarring of the cornea. This is caused by a condition in which the inside lining of your cornea, called Descemet's membrane, breaks down. This causes fluid to enter the cornea, a condition known as hydrops. The swelling usually goes down by itself, but a scar may form that affects your vision.
Advanced keratoconus also may cause your cornea to become scarred, particularly where the cone is most prominent. A scarred cornea causes worsening vision problems and may require cornea transplant surgery.
There are no preventive measures available for Keratoconus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Keratosis pilaris
Overview of Keratosis pilaris:
Keratosis pilaris (ker-uh-TOE-sis pih-LAIR-is) is a harmless skin condition that causes dry, rough patches and tiny bumps, often on the upper arms, thighs, cheeks or buttocks. The bumps usually don't hurt or itch.
Keratosis pilaris is often considered a common variant of skin. It can't be cured or prevented. But you can treat it with moisturizers and prescription creams to help improve how the skin looks. The condition usually disappears by age 30.
Home Remedies for Keratosis pilaris:
Self-help measures won't prevent keratosis pilaris or make it go away. But they may improve how the affected skin looks. When using a product new to you, test it on one area of affected skin first, such as an arm. If it seems to work and doesn't cause a reaction, use it for your keratosis pilaris.
Use warm water and limit bath time. Hot water and long showers or baths remove oils from the skin. Limit bath or shower time to about 10 minutes or less. Use warm, not hot, water.
Be gentle to the skin. Avoid harsh, drying soaps. Gently remove dead skin with a washcloth or loofah. Vigorous scrubbing or removal of hair follicle plugs may irritate the skin and worsen the condition. After washing or bathing, gently pat or blot the skin with a towel so that some moisture remains.
Try medicated creams. Apply a nonprescription cream that contains urea, lactic acid, alpha hydroxy acid or salicylic acid. These creams help loosen and remove dead skin cells. They also moisturize and soften dry skin. Put on this product before moisturizer.
Moisturize. While the skin is still moist from bathing, apply a moisturizer that contains lanolin, petroleum jelly or glycerin. These ingredients soothe dry skin and help trap moisture. Thicker moisturizers work best. Examples are Eucerin and Cetaphil. Reapply the product to the affected skin several times a day.
Use a humidifier. Low humidity dries out the skin. A portable home humidifier or one attached to your furnace will add moisture to the air inside your home.
Avoid friction from tight clothes. Protect affected skin from the friction caused by wearing tight clothes.
Symptoms for Keratosis pilaris :
Keratosis pilaris can occur at any age, but it's more common in young children. Symptoms include:
Painless tiny bumps on the upper arms, thighs, cheeks or buttocks
Dry, rough skin in the areas with bumps
Worsening when seasonal changes cause low humidity and dry skin
Sandpaper-like bumps resembling goose flesh
Causes for Keratosis pilaris :
Keratosis pilaris is caused by the buildup of keratin — a hard protein that protects skin from harmful substances and infection. The keratin blocks the opening of hair follicles, causing patches of rough, bumpy skin.
It's not clear why keratin builds up in people with keratosis pilaris. It might happen along with a genetic disease or skin conditions such as atopic dermatitis. Dry skin tends to make keratosis pilaris worse.
Risk Factors for Keratosis pilaris:
Keratosis pilaris is very common. It tends to run in families.
There are no Complications available for Keratosis pilaris in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Keratosis pilaris in the knowledge baseCondition name:Kidney cancer
Overview of Kidney cancer:
Kidney cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the kidneys. The kidneys are two bean-shaped organs, each about the size of a fist. They're located behind the abdominal organs, with one kidney on each side of the spine.
In adults, renal cell carcinoma is the most common type of kidney cancer. Other, less common types of kidney cancer can happen. Young children are more likely to develop a kind of kidney cancer called Wilms tumor.
The number of kidney cancers diagnosed each year seems to be increasing. One reason for this may be the fact that imaging techniques such as CT scans are being used more often. These tests may lead to the incidental discovery of more kidney cancers. Kidney cancer is often found when the cancer is small and confined to the kidney.
There are no home remedies available for Kidney cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kidney cancer :
Kidney cancer doesn't usually cause symptoms at first. In time, signs and symptoms may develop, including:
Blood in the urine, which may appear pink, red or cola colored.
Loss of appetite.
Pain in the side or back that doesn't go away.
Tiredness.
Unexplained weight loss.
Causes for Kidney cancer :
It's not clear what causes most kidney cancers.
Kidney cancer happens when cells in the kidney develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Kidney cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of kidney cancer include:
Older age. The risk of kidney cancer increases with age.
Smoking tobacco. People who smoke have a greater risk of kidney cancer than those who don't. The risk decreases after quitting.
Obesity. People who are obese have a higher risk of kidney cancer than people who are considered to have a healthy weight.
High blood pressure. High blood pressure, also called hypertension, increases the risk of kidney cancer.
Certain inherited conditions. People who are born with certain inherited conditions may have an increased risk of kidney cancer. These conditions may include von Hippel-Lindau disease, Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, tuberous sclerosis complex, hereditary papillary renal cell carcinoma and familial renal cancer.
Family history of kidney cancer. The risk of kidney cancer is higher if a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, has had the disease.
There are no Complications available for Kidney cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Kidney cancer
There's no sure way to prevent kidney cancer, but you may reduce your risk if you:
Condition name:Kidney cysts
Overview of Kidney cysts:
Kidney cysts are round pouches of fluid that form on or in the kidneys. Kidney cysts can occur with disorders that may impair kidney function. But more often, kidney cysts are a type called simple kidney cysts. Simple kidney cysts aren't cancer and rarely cause problems.
It's not clear what causes simple kidney cysts. Often, one cyst occurs on the surface of a kidney. But more than one cyst can appear on one or both kidneys. Simple kidney cysts aren't the same as cysts that form with polycystic kidney disease. Simple cysts also differ from complex cysts. Complex cysts need to be watched for changes that could be cancer.
Simple kidney cysts are often found during an imaging test for another condition. Treatment usually isn't needed unless simple cysts cause symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Kidney cysts in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kidney cysts :
Simple kidney cysts typically don't cause symptoms. But if a simple kidney cyst grows large enough, symptoms may include:
Dull pain in the back or side
Fever
Upper stomach pain
Causes for Kidney cysts :
It's not clear what causes simple kidney cysts. One theory suggests that kidney cysts develop when the surface layer of the kidney weakens and forms a pouch. The pouch then fills with fluid, detaches and develops into a cyst.
Risk Factors for Kidney cysts:
The risk of having simple kidney cysts increases as you get older. But they can occur at any age. Simple kidney cysts are more common in men.
Complications for Kidney cysts:
Kidney cysts may sometimes lead to complications, including:
An infected cyst. A kidney cyst may become infected, causing fever and pain.
A burst cyst. A kidney cyst that bursts causes severe pain in the back or side. Sometimes a burst cyst may cause blood in the urine.
Blocked urine flow. A kidney cyst that blocks the typical flow of urine may lead to kidney swelling.
There are no preventive measures available for Kidney cysts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Kidney infection
Overview of Kidney infection:
A kidney infection is a type of urinary tract infection (UTI). A kidney infection may begin in the tube that carries urine from the body (urethra) or in the bladder. The infection can travel to one or both kidneys. A kidney infection is also called pyelonephritis.
A kidney infection needs prompt medical treatment. If not treated properly, an infection can cause lasting damage to the kidneys. Or the bacteria can spread to the bloodstream and cause a dangerous infection.
Kidney infection treatment often includes antibiotics, which might be given in the hospital.
Home Remedies for Kidney infection:
To help you feel better while you recover from a kidney infection, you might:
Apply heat. Place a heating pad on your belly, back or side to ease pain.
Use pain medicine. For fever or discomfort, take a pain reliever such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). If you have chronic kidney disease, it's best to avoid or limit use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as ibuprofen (Motrin IB, Advil, others).
Stay hydrated. Drinking fluids will help flush bacteria from your urinary tract. Avoid coffee and alcohol until your infection has cleared. They can worsen the feeling of needing to urinate.
Symptoms for Kidney infection :
Symptoms of a kidney infection might include:
Fever
Chills
A burning feeling or pain when urinating
Having to urinate often
A strong, lasting urge to urinate
Back, side or groin pain
Nausea and vomiting
Pus or blood in the urine
Urine that smells bad or is cloudy
Belly pain
Causes for Kidney infection :
Bacteria that enter the urinary tract through the urethra can multiply and travel to your kidneys. This is the most common cause of kidney infections.
Bacteria from an infection in another part of the body also can spread through the bloodstream to the kidneys. In rare cases, an artificial joint or heart valve that becomes infected can cause a kidney infection.
Rarely, a kidney infection happens after kidney surgery.
Risk Factors for Kidney infection:
Factors that increase the risk of a kidney infection include:
Being female. The urethra is shorter in women than in men. That makes it easier for bacteria to travel from outside the body to the bladder. The urethra being close to the vagina and anus also makes it easier for bacteria to enter the bladder.
Once in the bladder, an infection can spread to the kidneys. Pregnant women are at even higher risk of a kidney infection.
Having a urinary tract blockage. Anything that slows the flow of urine or makes it harder to fully empty the bladder can raise the risk of a kidney infection. This includes a kidney stone, a narrowed urethra or an enlarged prostate gland.
Having a weakened immune system. Medical conditions such as diabetes and HIV can weaken the immune system. Certain medicines also can lower immunity. These include drugs taken after an organ transplant that help prevent rejection.
Having damage to nerves around the bladder. Nerve or spinal cord damage can block the feeling of a bladder infection. That can make it hard to know when an infection travels to a kidney.
Using a urinary catheter. Urinary catheters are tubes used to drain urine from the bladder. Catheters are sometimes used after a surgical procedure or diagnostic test. They're also used in people who are confined to a bed.
Having a condition that causes urine to flow the wrong way. In vesicoureteral reflux, small amounts of urine flow from the bladder back into the tubes that connect the bladder and kidneys. People with this condition are at higher risk of kidney infections when they're kids and when they become adults.
Complications for Kidney infection:
If left untreated, a kidney infection can lead to potentially serious complications, such as:
Kidney scarring. This can lead to chronic kidney disease, high blood pressure and kidney failure.
Blood poisoning. The kidneys filter waste from blood and return the filtered blood to the rest of the body. A kidney infection can cause bacteria to spread through the bloodstream.
Pregnancy complications. A kidney infection that occurs during pregnancy can increase the risk of having a baby with a low birth weight.
Preventions for Kidney infection
Reduce your risk of kidney infection by taking steps to prevent urinary tract infections. Women in particular may lower the risk of urinary tract infections if they:
Drink fluids, especially water. Fluids can help remove bacteria from the body when you urinate.
Urinate as soon as you need to. Don't delay urinating when you feel the urge.
Empty the bladder after sexual intercourse. Urinating as soon as possible after sex helps clear bacteria from the urethra. This lowers the risk of infection.
Wipe carefully. Wipe from front to back after urinating and after a bowel movement. This helps prevent bacteria from spreading to the urethra.
Avoid using products in the genital area. Deodorant sprays in the genital area or douches can be irritating.
Condition name:Kidney stones
Overview of Kidney stones:
Kidney stones (also called renal calculi, nephrolithiasis or urolithiasis) are hard deposits made of minerals and salts that form inside your kidneys.
Diet, excess body weight, some medical conditions, and certain supplements and medications are among the many causes of kidney stones. Kidney stones can affect any part of your urinary tract — from your kidneys to your bladder. Often, stones form when the urine becomes concentrated, allowing minerals to crystallize and stick together.
Passing kidney stones can be quite painful, but the stones usually cause no permanent damage if they're recognized in a timely fashion. Depending on your situation, you may need nothing more than to take pain medication and drink lots of water to pass a kidney stone. In other instances — for example, if stones become lodged in the urinary tract, are associated with a urinary infection or cause complications — surgery may be needed.
Your doctor may recommend preventive treatment to reduce your risk of recurrent kidney stones if you're at increased risk of developing them again.
There are no home remedies available for Kidney stones in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kidney stones :
A kidney stone usually will not cause symptoms until it moves around within the kidney or passes into one of the ureters. The ureters are the tubes that connect the kidneys and bladder.
If a kidney stone becomes lodged in the ureters, it may block the flow of urine and cause the kidney to swell and the ureter to spasm, which can be very painful. At that point, you may experience these symptoms:
Severe, sharp pain in the side and back, below the ribs
Pain that radiates to the lower abdomen and groin
Pain that comes in waves and fluctuates in intensity
Pain or burning sensation while urinating
Other signs and symptoms may include:
Pink, red or brown urine
Cloudy or foul-smelling urine
A persistent need to urinate, urinating more often than usual or urinating in small amounts
Nausea and vomiting
Fever and chills if an infection is present
Pain caused by a kidney stone may change — for instance, shifting to a different location or increasing in intensity — as the stone moves through your urinary tract.
Causes for Kidney stones :
Kidney stones often have no definite, single cause, although several factors may increase your risk.
Kidney stones form when your urine contains more crystal-forming substances — such as calcium, oxalate and uric acid — than the fluid in your urine can dilute. At the same time, your urine may lack substances that prevent crystals from sticking together, creating an ideal environment for kidney stones to form.
Risk Factors for Kidney stones:
Factors that increase your risk of developing kidney stones include:
Family or personal history. If someone in your family has had kidney stones, you're more likely to develop stones, too. If you've already had one or more kidney stones, you're at increased risk of developing another.
Dehydration. Not drinking enough water each day can increase your risk of kidney stones. People who live in warm, dry climates and those who sweat a lot may be at higher risk than others.
Certain diets. Eating a diet that's high in protein, sodium (salt) and sugar may increase your risk of some types of kidney stones. This is especially true with a high-sodium diet. Too much salt in your diet increases the amount of calcium your kidneys must filter and significantly increases your risk of kidney stones.
Obesity. High body mass index (BMI), large waist size and weight gain have been linked to an increased risk of kidney stones.
Digestive diseases and surgery. Gastric bypass surgery, inflammatory bowel disease or chronic diarrhea can cause changes in the digestive process that affect your absorption of calcium and water, increasing the amounts of stone-forming substances in your urine.
Other medical conditions such as renal tubular acidosis, cystinuria, hyperparathyroidism and repeated urinary tract infections also can increase your risk of kidney stones.
Certain supplements and medications, such as vitamin C, dietary supplements, laxatives (when used excessively), calcium-based antacids, and certain medications used to treat migraines or depression, can increase your risk of kidney stones.
There are no Complications available for Kidney stones in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Kidney stones in the knowledge baseCondition name:Kleptomania
Overview of Kleptomania:
Kleptomania (klep-toe-MAY-nee-uh) is a mental health disorder that involves repeatedly being unable to resist urges to steal items that you generally don't really need. Often the items stolen have little value and you could afford to buy them. Kleptomania is rare but can be a serious condition. It can cause much emotional pain to you and your loved ones — and even legal problems — if not treated.
Kleptomania is a type of impulse control disorder — a disorder that involves problems with emotional or behavioral self-control. If you have an impulse control disorder, you have difficulty resisting the temptation or powerful urge to perform an act that's excessive or harmful to you or someone else.
Many people with kleptomania live lives of secret shame because they're afraid to seek mental health treatment. Although there's no cure for kleptomania, treatment with medicine or skill-building therapy that focuses on dealing with urges may help to end the cycle of compulsive stealing.
There are no home remedies available for Kleptomania in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kleptomania :
Kleptomania symptoms may include:
Inability to resist powerful urges to steal items that you don't need
Feeling increased tension, anxiety or arousal leading up to the theft
Feeling pleasure, relief or satisfaction while stealing
Feeling terrible guilt, remorse, self-loathing, shame or fear of arrest after the theft
Return of the urges and a repetition of the kleptomania cycle
Causes for Kleptomania :
The causes of kleptomania are not known. Several theories suggest that changes in the brain may be at the root of kleptomania, and that learned patterns of stealing items strengthens the problem over time. More research is needed to better understand these possible causes, but kleptomania may be linked to:
Problems with a naturally occurring brain chemical called serotonin. Serotonin, a neurotransmitter, helps regulate moods and emotions. Low levels of serotonin are common in people prone to impulsive behaviors.
Addictive disorders. Stealing may cause the release of dopamine — another neurotransmitter. Dopamine causes pleasurable feelings, and some people seek this rewarding feeling again and again.
The brain's opioid system. Urges are regulated by the brain's opioid system. An imbalance in this system could make it harder to resist urges.
Learned habit. Urges are very uncomfortable. Responding to these urges by stealing causes a temporary decrease in distress and relief from these urges. This creates a strong habit that becomes hard to break.
Risk Factors for Kleptomania:
Kleptomania is not common. But some cases of kleptomania may never be diagnosed. Some people never seek treatment. Other people are jailed after repeated thefts.
Kleptomania often begins during the teen years or in young adulthood, but it can start later. About two-thirds of people with known kleptomania are female.
Kleptomania risk factors may include:
Family history. Having a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with kleptomania or addictive disorders may increase the risk of kleptomania.
Having another mental illness. People with kleptomania often have another mental health disorder, such as anxiety, depression or a substance use disorder.
Complications for Kleptomania:
Left untreated, kleptomania can result in severe emotional, family, work, legal and financial problems. For example, you know stealing is wrong but you feel powerless to resist the impulse. As a result, you may be filled with guilt, shame, self-loathing and humiliation. And you may be arrested for stealing. You may otherwise lead a law-abiding life and be confused and upset by your compulsive stealing.
Other complications and conditions associated with kleptomania may include:
Other impulse-control disorders, such as compulsive gambling or shopping
Alcohol or other substance misuse
Personality disorders
Eating disorders
Depression
Bipolar disorder
Anxiety disorders
Suicidal thoughts and behaviors
Preventions for Kleptomania
Because the causes of kleptomania aren't clear, it's not yet known how to prevent it with any certainty. Getting treatment as soon as compulsive stealing begins may help prevent kleptomania from becoming worse and prevent some of the negative consequences.
Condition name:Klinefelter syndrome
Overview of Klinefelter syndrome:
Klinefelter syndrome is a common condition that results when a person assigned male at birth has an extra copy of the X sex chromosome instead of the typical XY. Klinefelter syndrome is a genetic condition that occurs before birth, but it often isn't diagnosed until adulthood.
Klinefelter syndrome may affect testicular growth. This results in smaller testicles, which can lead to making less of the hormone testosterone. The syndrome also may cause smaller muscle mass, less body and facial hair, and extra breast tissue. The effects of Klinefelter syndrome vary, and not everyone has the same symptoms.
Most people with Klinefelter syndrome produce little or no sperm, but assisted reproductive procedures may make it possible for some people with Klinefelter syndrome to have biological children.
There are no home remedies available for Klinefelter syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Klinefelter syndrome :
Symptoms of Klinefelter syndrome vary widely. Many children with Klinefelter syndrome show few or only mild symptoms. Most often the condition isn't diagnosed until puberty or adulthood, or it may never be diagnosed. For others, the condition has a noticeable effect on growth or appearance. Klinefelter syndrome may affect development, physical appearance, sexual development and mental health.
Causes for Klinefelter syndrome :
Klinefelter syndrome occurs because of a random change in the egg or the sperm that causes a baby assigned male at birth to be born with an extra X sex chromosome. The condition is not passed down in families.
Klinefelter syndrome can be caused by:
One extra copy of the X sex chromosome in each cell (XXY), the most common cause.
An extra X sex chromosome in some of the cells. This is called mosaic Klinefelter syndrome and may result in fewer symptoms.
More than one extra copy of the X sex chromosome, which is rare and results in a severe form of the syndrome.
In people assigned male at birth, extra copies of genes on the X sex chromosome can interfere with sexual development and fertility.
Risk Factors for Klinefelter syndrome:
Klinefelter syndrome occurs because of a random genetic change in the sperm or the egg. The risk of Klinefelter syndrome is not raised by anything parents do or don't do. For people carrying a pregnancy after age 35, the risk is higher but only slightly.
Complications for Klinefelter syndrome:
Klinefelter syndrome may raise the risk of:
Anxiety and depression.
Social, emotional and behavioral problems, such as low self-esteem.
Problem with fertility and sexual function.
Thin and brittle bones, a condition called osteoporosis.
Heart and blood vessel disease.
Breast cancer and some other cancers.
Lung disease.
Metabolic syndrome, which includes type 2 diabetes, high blood pressure, and high cholesterol and triglycerides.
Being overweight.
Autoimmune disorders such as lupus and rheumatoid arthritis.
Tooth and mouth problems that make dental cavities more likely.
Autism spectrum disorder.
Some complications caused by Klinefelter syndrome are the result of low testosterone, also called hypogonadism. Hormone therapy lessens the risk of certain health problems, especially when therapy is started at the beginning of puberty.
There are no preventive measures available for Klinefelter syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome
Overview of Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome:
Klippel-Trenaunay (klih-PEL tray-no-NAY) syndrome ― also called KTS ― is a rare disorder found at birth (congenital) involving problems in the development of certain blood vessels, soft tissues (such as skin and muscles), bones and sometimes the lymphatic system. The main features include a red birthmark (port-wine stain), ranging in color from pink to reddish-purple, atypical vein or lymphatic development (malformations), and overgrowth of tissues and bones. These findings most often affect one leg but may occur in an arm or elsewhere.
Although there is no cure for KTS, treatment goals are to improve symptoms and prevent complications.
Home Remedies for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome:
Strategies to help manage KTS symptoms include:
Keep appointments. Regularly scheduled appointments can help your doctor identify and address problems early. Ask your doctor about what schedule of appointments is appropriate for you.
Use orthopedic shoes, if recommended. Orthopedic shoes or shoe inserts may improve your physical function.
Follow your doctor's recommendations on physical activity. Encouraging use of affected limbs as appropriate may help relieve lymphedema and swelling of the blood vessels.
Elevate affected limbs. When possible, raising your leg or other affected limb can help reduce lymphedema.
Notify your doctor of changes. Work with your doctor to manage your symptoms and prevent complications. Contact your doctor if you have symptoms of blood clots or an infection or if you experience increased pain or swelling.
Symptoms for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome :
People who have KTS may have the following features, which can range from mild to more extensive:
Port-wine stain. This pink to reddish-purple birthmark is caused by extra tiny blood vessels (capillaries) in the top layer of skin. The birthmark often covers part of one leg but can involve any portion of the skin. It may get darker or lighter with age.
Vein malformations. These include swollen, twisted veins (varicose veins), usually on the surface of the legs. Deeper malformed veins in the arms, legs, abdomen and pelvis also can occur. There may be spongy tissue filled with small veins in or under the skin. Malformed veins may become more prominent with age.
Overgrowth of bones and soft tissue. This begins in infancy and may be limited to one leg, but it can occur in an arm or, rarely, in the trunk or face. This overgrowth of bone and tissue creates a larger and longer extremity. Rarely, there may be fusion of fingers or toes or extra fingers or toes.
Lymphatic system malformations. The lymphatic system — part of the immune system that protects against infection and disease and transports lymphatic fluid — can be malformed. Extra lymphatic vessels can be present that don't work properly and can lead to fluid leakage into the tissues and swelling.
Other conditions. KTS can also include cataracts, glaucoma, hip dislocation at birth, purple-red skin coloring when cold and blood-clotting problems.
Causes for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome :
KTS is a genetic disorder. It involves genetic changes (mutations), most commonly in the PIK3CA gene. This gene is responsible for the growth of cells and the development of tissues in the body. A change in this gene results in overgrowth of tissues.
KTS is not usually inherited. The gene changes occur randomly during cell division in early development before birth.
Risk Factors for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome:
Family history doesn't seem to be a risk factor, so it's unlikely that parents of one child with KTS will have another child with the disorder, even if one of the parents has KTS.
Complications for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome:
Complications of KTS can result from atypical development of blood vessels, soft tissues, bones and the lymphatic system. These can include:
Port-wine stain complications. Some areas of the port-wine stain may thicken over time and may form blisters (blebs) that are prone to bleeding and infections. Skin ulcers and poor wound healing also may occur.
Vein malformations. Varicose veins can cause pain and skin ulcers due to poor circulation. Deeper malformed veins can increase the risk of blood clots (deep vein thrombosis) and cause a life-threatening condition called pulmonary embolism if the clots dislodge and travel to the lungs. Venous malformations in the pelvis and abdominal organs can cause internal bleeding. Superficial veins can develop less serious but painful clots and inflammation (superficial thrombophlebitis).
Overgrowth of bones and soft tissue. Overgrowth of bone and tissue can cause pain, a feeling of heaviness, limb enlargement and problems with movement. Overgrowth that causes one leg to be longer than the other can result in problems with walking and may lead to hip and back problems.
Lymphatic system malformations. Malformations in the lymphatic system can cause fluid buildup and swelling in the tissues of the arms or legs (lymphedema), skin breakdown and skin ulcers, leakage of lymphatic fluid, or infection of the layer under the skin (cellulitis).
Chronic pain. Pain can be a common problem that results from complications such as infections, swelling, bone involvement or vein problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Knee bursitis
Overview of Knee bursitis:
Knee bursitis is a condition in which one or more small fluid-filled sacs near the knee joint become inflamed. The sacs are called bursae. Bursae reduce friction and cushion pressure points between bones and tendons, muscles and skin near the joints.
Any of the bursae in the knee can be affected by painful swelling, also called inflammation. But most often, knee bursitis happens over the kneecap or on the inner side of the knee below the joint.
Knee bursitis causes pain and can limit your movement. Treatment often includes a mix of self-care techniques and medical treatments to ease pain and inflammation.
Home Remedies for Knee bursitis:
To ease pain and discomfort of knee bursitis:
Rest your knee. Take a break from the activity that caused your symptoms. Try not to kneel and make movements that make your pain worse.
Take pain relievers. Some medicines that are sold without a prescription can help ease pain. They're meant for short-term use. They include aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Apply ice. Apply an ice pack to your knee for 20 minutes at a time. Do this a few times a day until the pain and warmth in the knee go away.
Try gentle compression. Use of a compressive wrap or knee sleeve can help ease swelling.
Raise your knee. Prop your affected leg on pillows. This helps curb swelling in your knee.
Lose extra weight if needed. This can take pressure off of your affected knee.
Symptoms for Knee bursitis :
Knee bursitis symptoms vary. They depend on which bursa is affected and what's causing the inflammation.
The affected portion of your knee might feel warm, tender and swollen. You also might feel pain when you move or when you're at rest.
A direct blow to the knee can cause symptoms to come on fast. But knee bursitis often stems from friction and irritation of the bursae. This can occur with jobs that require a lot of kneeling on hard surfaces. So, the symptoms can start slowly and become worse over time.
Causes for Knee bursitis :
Knee bursitis can be caused by:
Frequent and ongoing pressure, such as from kneeling, especially on hard surfaces.
Overuse of the knee or strenuous activity.
A direct blow to the knee.
An infection of the bursa due to bacteria, which could get into the knee through a bruise or a cut.
Medical problems that can happen with osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis or gout in the knee.
Risk Factors for Knee bursitis:
Factors that can raise the risk of getting knee bursitis include:
Prolonged kneeling. The risk of bursitis is higher for people who work on their knees for long amounts of time. This includes carpet layers, plumbers and gardeners.
Playing certain sports. Sports that can lead to direct blows or frequent falls on the knee raise your risk of knee bursitis. So do sports that create friction between the knee and a mat. These sports include wrestling, football, basketball and volleyball. Runners also can get pain and inflammation in the bursa that's located on the inner side of the knee below the joint. This is called pes anserine bursitis.
Obesity and osteoarthritis. Pes anserine bursitis often occurs in obese women with osteoarthritis.
There are no Complications available for Knee bursitis in the knowledge basePreventions for Knee bursitis
The following tips can help you prevent bursitis or keep it from coming back:
Wear kneepads. This can help if you often work on your knees or play sports that put your knees at risk. Use padding to cushion and protect your knees.
Take breaks. If you're on your knees for a while, take regular breaks to stretch your legs and rest your knees.
Reach and stay at a healthy weight. This can help take pressure off the knee joints.
Condition name:Knee pain
Overview of Knee pain:
Knee pain is a common complaint that affects people of all ages. Knee pain may be the result of an injury, such as a ruptured ligament or torn cartilage. Medical conditions — including arthritis, gout and infections — also can cause knee pain.
Many types of minor knee pain respond well to self-care measures. Physical therapy and knee braces also can help relieve pain. In some cases, however, your knee may require surgical repair.
Home Remedies for Knee pain:
Over-the-counter medications â€” such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) â€” may help ease knee pain.
Some people find relief by rubbing the affected knee with creams containing a numbing agent, such as lidocaine, or capsaicin, the substance that makes chili peppers hot.
Self-care measures for an injured knee include:
Rest. Take a break from your normal activities to reduce repetitive strain on your knee, give the injury time to heal and help prevent further damage. A day or two of rest may be all you need for a minor injury. More severe damage is likely to need a longer recovery time.
Ice. Ice reduces both pain and inflammation. A bag of frozen peas works well because it covers your whole knee. You also can use an ice pack wrapped in a thin towel to protect your skin. Although ice therapy is generally safe and effective, don't use ice for longer than 20 minutes at a time because of the risk of damage to your nerves and skin.
Heat. You may experience temporary pain relief by applying a heat pack or hot-water bottle to the painful area on your knee.
Compression. This helps prevent fluid buildup in damaged tissues and maintains knee alignment and stability. Look for a compression bandage that's lightweight, breathable and self-adhesive. It should be tight enough to support your knee without interfering with circulation.
Elevation. To help reduce swelling, try propping your injured leg on pillows or sitting in a recliner.
Symptoms for Knee pain :
The location and severity of knee pain may vary, depending on the cause of the problem. Signs and symptoms that sometimes accompany knee pain include:
Swelling and stiffness
Redness and warmth to the touch
Weakness or instability
Popping or crunching noises
Inability to fully straighten the knee
Causes for Knee pain :
Knee pain can be caused by injuries, mechanical problems, types of arthritis and other problems.
Risk Factors for Knee pain:
A number of factors can increase your risk of having knee problems, including:
Excess weight. Being overweight or obese increases stress on your knee joints, even during ordinary activities such as walking or going up and down stairs. It also puts you at increased risk of osteoarthritis by accelerating the breakdown of joint cartilage.
Lack of muscle flexibility or strength. A lack of strength and flexibility can increase the risk of knee injuries. Strong muscles help stabilize and protect your joints, and muscle flexibility can help you achieve full range of motion.
Certain sports or occupations. Some sports put greater stress on your knees than do others. Alpine skiing with its rigid ski boots and potential for falls, basketball's jumps and pivots, and the repeated pounding your knees take when you run or jog all increase your risk of knee injury. Jobs that require repetitive stress on the knees such as construction or farming also can increase your risk.
Previous injury. Having a previous knee injury makes it more likely that you'll injure your knee again.
Complications for Knee pain:
Not all knee pain is serious. But some knee injuries and medical conditions, such as osteoarthritis, can lead to increasing pain, joint damage and disability if left untreated. And having a knee injury — even a minor one — makes it more likely that you'll have similar injuries in the future.
Preventions for Knee pain
Although it's not always possible to prevent knee pain, the following suggestions may help ward off injuries and joint deterioration:
Keep extra pounds off. Maintain a healthy weight; it's one of the best things you can do for your knees. Every extra pound puts additional strain on your joints, increasing the risk of injuries and osteoarthritis.
Be in shape to play your sport. To prepare your muscles for the demands of sports participation, take time for conditioning.
Practice perfectly. Make sure the technique and movement patterns you use in your sports or activity are the best they can be. Lessons from a professional can be very helpful.
Get strong, stay flexible. Weak muscles are a leading cause of knee injuries. You'll benefit from building up your quadriceps and hamstrings, the muscles on the front and back of your thighs that help support your knees. Balance and stability training helps the muscles around your knees work together more effectively.
And because tight muscles also can contribute to injury, stretching is important. Try to include flexibility exercises in your workouts.
Be smart about exercise. If you have osteoarthritis, chronic knee pain or recurring injuries, you may need to change the way you exercise. Consider switching to swimming, water aerobics or other low-impact activities — at least for a few days a week. Sometimes simply limiting high-impact activities will provide relief.
Condition name:Kyphosis
Overview of Kyphosis:
Kyphosis is an excessive forward rounding of the upper back.
In older people, kyphosis is often due to weakness in the spinal bones that causes them to compress or crack. Other types of kyphosis can appear in infants or teens. These types are due to malformation of the spine or wedging of the spinal bones over time.
Mild kyphosis causes few problems. Serious kyphosis can cause pain and be disfiguring. Treatment for kyphosis depends on your age, and the cause and seriousness of the curvature.
There are no home remedies available for Kyphosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Kyphosis :
Mild kyphosis may not have any noticeable symptoms. In fact, the upper back naturally has a little kyphosis. People who have excessive curvature may experience back pain and stiffness.
Causes for Kyphosis :
The bones that make up a healthy spine look like cylinders stacked in a column. These bones are called vertebrae. Kyphosis happens when the vertebrae in the back become more wedge shaped.
The shape of vertebrae can be changed by:
Fractures. Broken vertebrae can result in curvature of the spine. Compression fractures, which can happen in weakened bone, are the most common. Mild compression fractures may not produce noticeable symptoms.
Osteoporosis. Weak bones can cause spinal curvature, especially if weakened vertebrae develop compression fractures. Osteoporosis is most common in older women and people who have taken corticosteroids for long periods of time.
Disk degeneration. Soft, circular disks act as cushions between spinal vertebrae. With age, these disks flatten and shrink, which often worsens kyphosis.
Scheuermann's disease. Also called Scheuermann's kyphosis, this disease usually becomes noticeable during adolescence.
Other problems. Spinal bones that don't develop properly before birth can cause kyphosis. Kyphosis in children also can be associated with certain medical conditions.
Risk Factors for Kyphosis:
The risk of developing kyphosis as an adult increases with age as bone density decreases and spinal disks degenerate. In children, certain genetic and metabolic conditions may put them at increased risk for kyphosis, including osteogenesis imperfecta, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Marfan syndrome.
Complications for Kyphosis:
In addition to causing back pain, kyphosis may cause:
Limited physical functions. Kyphosis is associated with weakened back muscles and difficulty doing tasks such as walking and getting out of chairs. The spinal curvature can also make it difficult to gaze upward or drive and can cause pain when you lie down.
Digestive problems. Serious kyphosis can compress the digestive tract, causing problems such as acid reflux and difficulty with swallowing.
Back pain. Some patients with serious kyphosis experience back pain.
Body image problems. People with kyphosis, especially adolescents, may have poor body image from having a rounded back.
There are no preventive measures available for Kyphosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Latex allergy
Overview of Latex allergy:
Latex allergy is a reaction to certain proteins found in natural rubber latex, a product made from the rubber tree. If you have a latex allergy, your body mistakes latex for a harmful substance.
Latex allergy may cause itchy skin and hives or even anaphylaxis, a potentially life-threatening condition that can cause throat swelling and severe difficulty breathing. Your health care provider can determine if you have a latex allergy or if you're at risk of developing a latex allergy.
Understanding latex allergy and knowing common sources of latex can help you prevent allergic reactions.
There are no home remedies available for Latex allergy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Latex allergy :
If you're allergic to latex, you're likely to have symptoms after touching latex rubber products, such as gloves or balloons. You also can have symptoms if you breathe in latex particles that are released into the air when someone removes latex gloves.
Latex allergy symptoms range from mild to severe. A reaction depends on how sensitive you are to latex and the amount of latex you touch or inhale. Your reaction can become worse with each additional latex exposure.
Causes for Latex allergy :
In a latex allergy, your immune system identifies latex as a harmful substance and triggers certain antibodies to fight it off. The next time you're exposed to latex, these antibodies tell your immune system to release histamine and other chemicals into your bloodstream. This process produces a range of allergy symptoms. The more times you are exposed to latex, the more strongly your immune system is likely to respond. This is called sensitization.
Latex allergy can occur in these ways:
Direct contact. The most common cause of latex allergy involves touching latex-containing products, including latex gloves, condoms and balloons.
Inhalation. Latex products, especially gloves, release latex particles. You can breathe in these particles when they become airborne. The amount of airborne latex from gloves differs greatly depending on the brand of glove used.
It's possible to have other skin reactions when using latex. They include:
Allergic contact dermatitis. This reaction results from the chemical additives used during manufacturing. The main symptom is a skin rash with formation of blisters 24 to 48 hours after exposure, similar to poison ivy.
Irritant contact dermatitis. Not an allergy, this skin irritation is caused by wearing rubber gloves or exposure to the powder inside them. Symptoms include dry, itchy, irritated areas, usually on the hands.
Not all latex products are made from natural sources. Products containing synthetic materials, such as latex paint, are unlikely to cause a reaction.
Risk Factors for Latex allergy:
Certain people are at greater risk of developing a latex allergy:
People with spina bifida. The risk of latex allergy is highest in people with spina bifida — a birth defect that affects the development of the spine. People with this disorder often are exposed to latex products through early and frequent health care. People with spina bifida should always avoid latex products.
People who undergo multiple surgeries or medical procedures. Repeated exposure to latex gloves and medical products increases your risk of developing latex allergy.
Health care workers. If you work in health care, you're at increased risk of developing a latex allergy.
Rubber industry workers. Repeated exposure to latex may increase sensitivity.
People with a personal or family history of allergies. You're at increased risk of latex allergy if you have other allergies — such as hay fever or a food allergy — or they're common in your family.
There are no Complications available for Latex allergy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Latex allergy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Left ventricular hypertrophy
Overview of Left ventricular hypertrophy:
Left ventricular hypertrophy is thickening of the walls of the lower left heart chamber. The lower left heart chamber is called the left ventricle. The left ventricle is the heart's main pumping chamber.
During left ventricular hypertrophy, the thickened heart wall can become stiff. Blood pressure in the heart increases. The changes make it harder for the heart to effectively pump blood. Eventually, the heart may fail to pump with as much force as needed.
Uncontrolled high blood pressure is the most common cause of left ventricular hypertrophy. Complications include irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias, and heart failure.
Treatment of left ventricular hypertrophy depends on the cause. Treatment may include medications or surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Left ventricular hypertrophy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Left ventricular hypertrophy :
Left ventricular hypertrophy usually develops gradually. Some people do not have symptoms, especially during the early stages of the condition.
Left ventricular hypertrophy itself doesn't cause symptoms. But symptoms may occur as the strain on the heart worsens. They may include:
Shortness of breath, especially while lying down.
Swelling of the legs.
Chest pain, often when exercising.
Sensation of rapid, fluttering or pounding heartbeats, called palpitations.
Fainting or a feeling of lightheadedness.
Causes for Left ventricular hypertrophy :
Anything that puts stress on the heart's lower left chamber can cause left ventricular hypertrophy. The lower left chamber is called the left ventricle. As the strain on the lower left chamber increases, the muscle tissue in the chamber wall thickens. Sometimes, the size of the heart chamber itself also increases.
Left ventricular hypertrophy also may be caused by gene changes that affect the heart muscle's structure.
Things that can cause the heart to work harder and may possibly lead to left ventricular hypertrophy include:
High blood pressure. Also called hypertension, this is the most common cause of left ventricular hypertrophy. Long-term high blood pressure strains the left side of the heart, causing it to grow bigger. Treating high blood pressure can help reduce left ventricular hypertrophy symptoms and may even reverse it.
Narrowing of the aortic valve. The aortic valve is between the lower left heart chamber and the body's main artery, called the aorta. Narrowing of the valve is called aortic stenosis. When the valve is narrowed, the heart must work harder to pump blood into the aorta.
Intensive athletic training. Intense, long-term strength and endurance training causes changes in the heart. The changes help the heart handle the extra physical workload. But the changes can make the heart muscle grow larger. Sometimes this is called athlete's heart or athletic heart syndrome. It's unclear whether the increased heart size in athletes can lead to stiffening of the heart muscle and disease.
Certain conditions passed down through families, called genetic conditions, can make the heart thicker. They include:
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. This condition is caused by changes in genes that cause the heart muscle to thicken. The thickening makes it harder for the heart to pump blood. It can occur even without high blood pressure. People with one parent with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy have a 50% chance of having the changed gene that causes the disease.
Amyloidosis. Proteins build up around the organs, including the heart. The collection of proteins interferes with how the organs work. When the condition is passed down through families, it is called familial amyloidosis. It also may affect the nerves and kidneys.
Risk Factors for Left ventricular hypertrophy:
Things that increase the risk of left ventricular hypertrophy include:
Age. Left ventricular hypertrophy is more common in older people. So is high blood pressure, which can cause heart muscle thickening.
Weight. Being overweight increases the risk of high blood pressure and left ventricular hypertrophy.
Family history. Changes in genes passed down through families may lead to left ventricular hypertrophy.
Diabetes. Having diabetes increases the risk of left ventricular hypertrophy.
Female gender. Women with high blood pressure are more likely to get the condition than are men with similar blood pressure measurements.
Complications for Left ventricular hypertrophy:
Left ventricular hypertrophy changes the structure of the heart and how the heart works. The thickened left ventricle becomes weak and stiff. This prevents the lower left heart chamber from filling properly with blood. As a result, blood pressure in the heart increases.
Complications of left ventricular hypertrophy include:
Heart failure.
Irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias.
Too little oxygen to the heart, called ischemic heart disease.
Sudden, unexpected loss of heart function, breathing and consciousness, called sudden cardiac arrest.
Preventions for Left ventricular hypertrophy
The same healthy lifestyle changes recommended to treat high blood pressure also help prevent left ventricular hypertrophy. Try these tips:
Don't smoke.
Eat healthy foods.
Use less salt.
Limit or avoid alcohol.
Get regular exercise.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily.
Manage stress.
Uncontrolled high blood pressure increases the risk of left ventricular hypertrophy. Get your blood pressure checked at least every two years if you're 18 and older. If you have risk factors for heart disease or are over age 40, you may need more-frequent checks. Ask your healthcare team what blood pressure reading is best for you. Your healthcare professional may recommend checking your blood pressure at home. Home blood pressure monitors are available at local stores and pharmacies.
Condition name:Legg-Calve-Perthes disease
Overview of Legg-Calve-Perthes disease:
Legg-Calve-Perthes (LEG-kahl-VAY-PER-tuz) disease is a childhood condition that occurs when blood supply to the ball part (femoral head) of the hip joint is temporarily interrupted and the bone begins to die.
This weakened bone gradually breaks apart and can lose its round shape. The body eventually restores blood supply to the ball, and the ball heals. But if the ball is no longer round after it heals, it can cause pain and stiffness. The complete process of bone death, fracture and renewal can take several years.
To keep the ball part of the joint as round as possible, doctors use a variety of treatments that keep it snug in the socket portion of the joint. The socket acts as a mold for the fragmented femoral head as it heals.
There are no home remedies available for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease :
Symptoms of Perthes disease include:
Limping.
Pain or stiffness in the hip, groin, thigh or knee.
Limited range of motion of the hip joint.
Pain that worsens with activity and improves with rest.
Perthes disease usually involves just one hip. Both hips can be affected, but they usually are affected at different times.
Causes for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease :
Perthes disease occurs when too little blood reaches the ball portion of the hip joint for a short time. Without enough blood, this bone becomes weak and collapses. The cause of the reduced blood flow is unknown.
Risk Factors for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease:
Risk factors for Perthes disease include:
Age. Perthes disease can affect children of nearly any age, but it most commonly begins between ages 4 and 10.
Your child's sex. Perthes is about four times more common in boys than in girls.
Complications for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease:
Children who have had Perthes disease are at higher risk of developing hip arthritis in adulthood — especially if the hip joint has poor healing. If the ball-and-socket joint doesn't fit together well after healing, the joint can wear out early.
In general, children who are diagnosed with Perthes disease after age 6 are more likely to develop hip conditions later in life. The younger the child is at the time of diagnosis, the better the chances for the hip joint to heal in a typical, round shape.
There are no preventive measures available for Legg-Calve-Perthes disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Leiomyosarcoma
Overview of Leiomyosarcoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Leiomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Leiomyosarcoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Leiomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Leiomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Leiomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Leiomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Leukemia
Overview of Leukemia:
Leukemia is cancer of the body's blood-forming tissues, including the bone marrow and the lymphatic system.
Many types of leukemia exist. Some forms of leukemia are more common in children. Other forms of leukemia occur mostly in adults.
Leukemia usually involves the white blood cells. Your white blood cells are potent infection fighters — they normally grow and divide in an orderly way, as your body needs them. But in people with leukemia, the bone marrow produces an excessive amount of abnormal white blood cells, which don't function properly.
Treatment for leukemia can be complex — depending on the type of leukemia and other factors. But there are strategies and resources that can help make your treatment successful.
There are no home remedies available for Leukemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Leukemia :
Leukemia symptoms vary, depending on the type of leukemia. Common leukemia signs and symptoms include:
Fever or chills
Persistent fatigue, weakness
Frequent or severe infections
Losing weight without trying
Swollen lymph nodes, enlarged liver or spleen
Easy bleeding or bruising
Recurrent nosebleeds
Tiny red spots in your skin (petechiae)
Excessive sweating, especially at night
Bone pain or tenderness
Causes for Leukemia :
Scientists don't understand the exact causes of leukemia. It seems to develop from a combination of genetic and environmental factors.
Risk Factors for Leukemia:
Factors that may increase your risk of developing some types of leukemia include:
Previous cancer treatment. People who've had certain types of chemotherapy and radiation therapy for other cancers have an increased risk of developing certain types of leukemia.
Genetic disorders. Genetic abnormalities seem to play a role in the development of leukemia. Certain genetic disorders, such as Down syndrome, are associated with an increased risk of leukemia.
Exposure to certain chemicals. Exposure to certain chemicals, such as benzene — which is found in gasoline and is used by the chemical industry — is linked to an increased risk of some kinds of leukemia.
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes increases the risk of acute myelogenous leukemia.
Family history of leukemia. If members of your family have been diagnosed with leukemia, your risk of the disease may be increased.
However, most people with known risk factors don't get leukemia. And many people with leukemia have none of these risk factors.
There are no Complications available for Leukemia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Leukemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Leukoplakia
Overview of Leukoplakia:
Leukoplakia (loo-koh-PLAY-key-uh) causes thick, white patches that form on the gums. The patches also may form on the insides of the cheeks and the bottom of the mouth. Sometimes the patches form on the tongue. These patches cannot be scraped off.
Doctors do not know the exact cause of leukoplakia. But ongoing irritation from tobacco — whether smoked, dipped or chewed — may be the most common cause. Long-term alcohol use is another possible cause.
Most leukoplakia patches are not cancer. But some patches show early signs of cancer. Cancers in the mouth can occur next to areas of leukoplakia. White areas mixed with red areas, also called speckled leukoplakia, may possibly lead to cancer. It's best to see your dentist or doctor if you have any changes in your mouth that do not go away.
A type of leukoplakia in the mouth called hairy leukoplakia mainly affects people whose immune systems have been weakened by disease, especially HIV/AIDS.
There are no home remedies available for Leukoplakia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Leukoplakia :
Leukoplakia usually occurs on the gums, the insides of the cheeks, the bottom of the mouth under the tongue and, sometimes, the tongue. Usually it is not painful and it may not be noticed for a while.
Leukoplakia may appear as:
White or gray patches that cannot be wiped away.
Patches with a rough, ridged, wrinkled or smooth surface, or a combination of these.
Patches with shapes and edges that are not regular.
Thick or hard patches.
White patches of leukoplakia may appear along with raised, red areas called erythroplakia (uh-rith-roe-PLAY-key-uh). This combination is called speckled leukoplakia. These patches are more likely to show changes that may lead to cancer.
Causes for Leukoplakia :
The exact cause of leukoplakia is not known. But long-term irritation from tobacco use — smoked and smokeless — appears to be strongly related to many cases. Often, regular users of smokeless tobacco products get leukoplakia in places where they hold the tobacco between their gums and cheeks.
The use of betel nut, also called an areca nut, may be a cause of leukoplakia. A betel nut packet, like smokeless tobacco, is held between the gum and cheek.
Other possible causes may include ongoing irritation from:
Long-term, heavy alcohol use.
Jagged, broken or sharp teeth rubbing on tongue surfaces.
Broken dentures or dentures that do not fit well.
Your doctor or other healthcare professional can talk with you about what may be causing leukoplakia.
Risk Factors for Leukoplakia:
Tobacco use, particularly smokeless tobacco, puts you at high risk of leukoplakia and mouth cancer. Long-term, heavy alcohol use increases your risk. Drinking alcohol combined with using tobacco increases your risk even more.
Complications for Leukoplakia:
Leukoplakia usually does not cause permanent damage to the inside of the mouth. But leukoplakia increases the risk of mouth cancer. Mouth cancers often form near leukoplakia patches. And the patches themselves may show cancerous changes. Even after leukoplakia patches are removed, the risk of mouth cancer remains.
Preventions for Leukoplakia
You may be able to prevent leukoplakia if you avoid all tobacco products or alcohol use. Talk to your doctor or other healthcare professional about ways to help you quit. If you continue to smoke or chew tobacco or drink alcohol, have dental checkups often. Mouth cancers are usually painless until advanced. Quitting tobacco and alcohol is a better way to prevent mouth cancers.
Condition name:Lewy body dementia
Overview of Lewy body dementia:
Lewy body dementia is the second most common type of dementia after Alzheimer's disease. Protein deposits called Lewy bodies develop in nerve cells in the brain. The protein deposits affect brain regions involved in thinking, memory and movement. This condition is also known as dementia with Lewy bodies.
Lewy body dementia causes a decline in mental abilities that gradually gets worse over time. People with Lewy body dementia might see things that aren't there. This is known as visual hallucinations. They also may have changes in alertness and attention.
People with Lewy body dementia might experience Parkinson's disease symptoms. These symptoms may include rigid muscles, slow movement, trouble walking and tremors.
There are no home remedies available for Lewy body dementia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lewy body dementia :
Lewy body dementia symptoms can include:
Visual hallucinations. Seeing things that aren't there, known as hallucinations, might be one of the first symptoms of Lewy body dementia. This symptom often occurs regularly. People with Lewy body dementia might see shapes, animals or people that aren't there. Hallucinations involving sounds, smells or touch are possible.
Movement disorders. Signs of Parkinson's disease, known as parkinsonian signs, may occur. These symptoms include slowed movement, rigid muscles, tremor or a shuffling walk. This can cause the person to fall.
Poor regulation of body functions. The part of the nervous system that controls automatic functions is called the autonomic nervous system. Lewy body dementia can affect how well the autonomic nervous system controls blood pressure, heart rate, sweating and digestion. This can result in sudden drops in blood pressure upon standing, dizziness, falls, loss of bladder control and bowel issues such as constipation.
Cognitive problems. People with Lewy body dementia might have thinking problems similar to those of Alzheimer's disease. They may include confusion, poor attention, visual-spatial problems and memory loss.
Trouble with sleep. People with Lewy body dementia can have rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder. This disorder causes people to physically act out their dreams while asleep. People with REM sleep behavior disorder may punch, kick, yell or scream while sleeping.
Varying attention. Episodes of drowsiness, long periods of staring into space, long naps during the day or disorganized speech are possible.
Depression. People with Lewy body dementia might develop depression.
Apathy. Loss of motivation may occur.
Causes for Lewy body dementia :
Lewy body dementia is characterized by the buildup of proteins into masses known as Lewy bodies. This protein also is associated with Parkinson's disease. People who have Lewy bodies in their brains also have the plaques and tangles associated with Alzheimer's disease.
Risk Factors for Lewy body dementia:
A few factors seem to increase the risk of developing Lewy body dementia, including:
Age. People older than 60 are at greater risk.
Sex. Lewy body dementia affects more men than women.
Family history. Those who have a family member with Lewy body dementia or Parkinson's disease are at greater risk.
Complications for Lewy body dementia:
Lewy body dementia is progressive. This means it gradually gets worse over time. As symptoms get worse, Lewy body dementia can lead to:
Severe dementia.
Aggressive behavior.
Depression.
Increased risk of falling and injury.
Worsening of parkinsonian symptoms, such as tremors.
Death, on average about 7 to 8 years after symptoms start.
There are no preventive measures available for Lewy body dementia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lice
Overview of Lice:
Lice are tiny, wingless insects that feed on human blood. Lice spread from person to person through close contact and by sharing belongings.
There are three types of lice:
Head lice found on the scalp. They're easiest to see at the nape of the neck and over the ears.
Body lice that live in clothing and bedding and move onto the skin to feed. Body lice most often affect people who aren't able to bathe or wash clothing often, such as homeless people.
Pubic lice, also called crabs, that occur on the skin and hair of the pubic area. Less often, they may be found on coarse body hair, such as chest hair, eyebrows or eyelashes.
Unless treated properly, lice can become a recurring problem.
There are no home remedies available for Lice in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lice :
Common signs and symptoms of lice include:
Intense itching on the scalp, body or in the genital area.
A tickling feeling from movement of hair.
The presence of lice on your scalp, body, clothing, or pubic or other body hair. Adult lice may be about the size of a sesame seed or slightly larger.
Lice eggs (nits) on hair shafts. Nits may be difficult to see because they're very tiny. They're easiest to spot around the ears and the nape of the neck. Nits can be mistaken for dandruff, but unlike dandruff, they can't be easily brushed out of hair.
Sores on the scalp, neck and shoulders. Scratching can lead to small red bumps that can sometimes get infected with bacteria.
Bite marks, especially around the waist, groin, upper thighs and pubic area.
Causes for Lice :
Lice feed on human blood and can be found on the human head, body and pubic area. The female louse produces a sticky substance that firmly attaches each egg to the base of a hair shaft. Eggs hatch in 6 to 9 days.
You can get lice by coming into contact with either lice or their eggs. Lice can't jump or fly. They spread through:
Head-to-head or body-to-body contact. This may occur as children or family members play or interact closely.
Closely stored belongings. Storing clothing that have lice close together in closets, lockers or on side-by-side hooks at school can spread lice. Lice also can spread when storing personal items such as pillows, blankets, combs and stuffed toys together.
Items shared among friends or family members. These may include clothing, headphones, brushes, combs, hair accessories, towels, blankets, pillows and stuffed toys.
Contact with furniture that has lice on it. Lying on a bed or sitting in overstuffed, cloth-covered furniture recently used by someone with lice can spread them. Lice can live for 1 to 2 days off the body.
Sexual contact. Pubic lice usually spread through sexual contact. Pubic lice most commonly affect adults. Pubic lice found on children may be a sign of sexual exposure or abuse.
There are no Risk Factors available for Lice in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Lice in the knowledge basePreventions for Lice
It's difficult to prevent the spread of head lice among children in child care and school settings. There's so much close contact among children and their belongings that lice can spread easily. The presence of head lice isn't a reflection of hygiene habits. It's also not a failure on the parent if a child gets head lice.
Some nonprescription products claim to repel lice. But more research is needed to prove their safety and effectiveness.
Many small studies have shown that ingredients in some of these products — mostly plant oils such as coconut, olive, rosemary and tea tree — may work to repel lice. However, these products are classified as "natural," so they aren't regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Their safety and effectiveness haven't been tested to FDA standards.
Until more research proves the effectiveness of head lice prevention products, the best approach is simply to take thorough steps to get rid of lice and their eggs if you find them on your child. In the meantime, these steps can help prevent lice:
Ask your child to avoid head-to-head contact with classmates during play and other activities.
Teach your child not to share personal belongings such as hats, scarves, coats, combs, brushes, hair accessories and headphones.
Tell your child to avoid shared spaces where hats and clothing from more than one student are hung on a common hook or kept in a locker.
However, it's not realistic to expect that you and your child can avoid all contact that may cause the spread of lice.
Your child may have nits in his or her hair but may not develop a case of head lice. Some nits are empty eggs. However, nits that are found within 1/4 inch (6 millimeters) of the scalp typically should be treated — even if you find only one — to prevent the possibility of hatching.
Condition name:Lichen planus
Overview of Lichen planus:
Lichen planus (LIE-kun PLAY-nus) is a condition of the skin, hair, nails, mouth and genitals. On skin, lichen planus often appears as purple, itchy, flat bumps that develop over several weeks. In the mouth and genital mucosa, lichen planus forms lacy white patches, sometimes with painful sores.
Mild lichen planus of the skin may not need treatment. If the condition causes pain or intense itching, you may need prescription medicine.
There are no home remedies available for Lichen planus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lichen planus :
Symptoms of lichen planus vary depending on the part of the body affected. Nail disease usually affects several nails. Symptoms include:
Purple, shiny, flat bumps, often on the inner forearms, wrists or ankles.
Lines of rash where the skin has been scratched.
Lacy white patches on the tongue or inside of the cheeks.
Itchiness.
Painful sores in the mouth or genitals.
Rarely, hair loss.
Nail scarring or loss.
Dark lines from the tip of the nail to the base.
Causes for Lichen planus :
The cause of lichen planus is likely related to the immune system attacking cells of the skin or mucous membranes. It's not clear why this irregular immune response happens. The condition isn't contagious.
Lichen planus may be activated by:
Hepatitis C infection.
Pain relievers and other medicines.
An allergic reaction to the metal in dental fillings.
Risk Factors for Lichen planus:
Anyone can develop lichen planus. It most often affects middle-aged adults. Lichen planus in the mouth is more likely to affect women than men.
Complications for Lichen planus:
Lichen planus can be difficult to treat on the vulva and in the vagina. It can cause scarring and severe pain. Sores on the genitals can make sex painful.
The affected skin and nails might stay slightly darker even after healing.
Oral sores may affect your ability to eat. Oral lichen planus increases the risk of oral cancer. Rarely, lichen planus affects the ear canal. Left untreated, it may lead to hearing loss.
There are no preventive measures available for Lichen planus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lichen sclerosus
Overview of Lichen sclerosus:
Lichen sclerosus (LIE-kun skluh-ROW-sus) is a condition that causes patchy, discolored, thin skin. It usually affects the genital and anal areas.
Anyone can get lichen sclerosus but postmenopausal women are at higher risk. It isn't contagious and can't be spread through sexual contact.
Treatment is usually a medicated ointment. This treatment helps return the skin to its usual color and reduces the risk of scarring. Even if your symptoms clear up, they tend to come back. So you'll likely need long-term follow-up care.
There are no home remedies available for Lichen sclerosus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lichen sclerosus :
It's possible to have mild lichen sclerosus with no symptoms. When symptoms do occur, they usually affect the skin of the genital and anal areas. The back, shoulders, upper arms and breasts may also be affected. Symptoms may include:
Smooth discolored skin patches
Blotchy, wrinkled skin patches
Itching
Soreness or a burning feeling
Easy bruising
Fragile skin
Changes in the tube for urine flow (urethra)
Bleeding, blistering or open sores
Painful sex
Causes for Lichen sclerosus :
The exact cause of lichen sclerosus isn't known. It's likely a combination of factors, including an overactive immune system, your genetic makeup, and previous skin damage or irritation.
Lichen sclerosus isn't contagious and can't be spread through sexual contact.
Risk Factors for Lichen sclerosus:
Anyone can get lichen sclerosus, but the risk is higher for:
Postmenopausal women
Children younger than 10 years old
Women who have another autoimmune disease, such as forms of low thyroid function (hypothyroidism)
Men with urinary incontinence or an uncircumcised penis
People with a family history of the disease
Complications for Lichen sclerosus:
Complications of lichen sclerosus include painful sex and scarring, including covering of the clitoris. Scarring of the penis can cause painful erection, poor urine flow and an inability to retract the foreskin.
People with vulvar lichen sclerosus are also at an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma.
In children, constipation is a common complication.
There are no preventive measures available for Lichen sclerosus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lip cancer
Overview of Lip cancer:
Lip cancer occurs on the skin of the lips. Lip cancer can occur anywhere along the upper or lower lip, but is most common on the lower lip. Lip cancer is considered a type of mouth (oral) cancer.
Most lip cancers are squamous cell carcinomas, which means they begin in the thin, flat cells in the middle and outer layers of the skin called squamous cells.
Lip cancer risk factors include excessive sun exposure and tobacco use. You may reduce your risk of lip cancer by protecting your face from the sun with a hat or sunblock, and by quitting smoking.
Treatment for lip cancer usually involves surgery to remove the cancer. For small lip cancers, surgery may be a minor procedure with minimal impact on your appearance.
For larger lip cancers, more extensive surgery may be necessary. Careful planning and reconstruction can preserve your ability to eat and speak normally, and also achieve a satisfactory appearance after surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Lip cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lip cancer :
Signs and symptoms of lip cancer include:
A flat or slightly raised whitish discoloration of the lip
A sore on your lip that won't heal
Tingling, pain or numbness of the lips or the skin around the mouth
Causes for Lip cancer :
It's not clear what causes lip cancer.
In general, cancer starts when cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cell to begin multiplying uncontrollably and to continue living when healthy cells would die. The accumulating cells form a tumor that can invade and destroy normal body tissue.
Risk Factors for Lip cancer:
Factors that can increase your risk of lip cancer include:
Tobacco use of any kind, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, among others
Fair skin
Excessive sun exposure to your lips
A weakened immune system
There are no Complications available for Lip cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Lip cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Liposarcoma
Overview of Liposarcoma:
Liposarcoma is a rare type of cancer that starts in the fat cells. It most often begins as a growth of cells in the belly or in the arm and leg muscles. But liposarcoma can begin in the fat cells anywhere in the body.
Liposarcoma happens most often in older adults, but it can happen at any age.
Liposarcoma treatment usually involves surgery to remove the cancer. Other treatments, such as radiation therapy, also may be used.
Liposarcoma is a type of cancer called a soft tissue sarcoma. These cancers happen in the body's connective tissues. There are many types of soft tissue sarcoma.
There are no home remedies available for Liposarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Liposarcoma :
Liposarcoma symptoms depend on the part of the body where the cancer forms.
Liposarcoma in the arms and legs can cause:
A growing lump of tissue under the skin.
Pain.
Swelling.
Weakness of the affected limb.
Liposarcoma in the belly, also called the abdomen, can cause:
Abdominal pain.
Abdominal swelling.
Feeling full sooner when eating.
Constipation.
Blood in stool.
Causes for Liposarcoma :
It's not clear what causes liposarcoma.
Liposarcoma starts when fat cells get changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes turn the fat cells into cancer cells. The changes tell the cancer cells to grow quickly and make a lot of extra cells. The cancer cells keep living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle.
The cancer cells form a growth, called a tumor. In some types of liposarcoma, the cancer cells stay put. They continue making more cells, causing the tumor to get bigger. In other types of liposarcoma, the cancer cells might break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads to other parts of the body, it's called metastatic cancer.
There are no Risk Factors available for Liposarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Liposarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Liposarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Liver cancer
Overview of Liver cancer:
Liver cancer is cancer that begins in the cells of your liver. Your liver is a football-sized organ that sits in the upper right portion of your abdomen, beneath your diaphragm and above your stomach.
Several types of cancer can form in the liver. The most common type of liver cancer is hepatocellular carcinoma, which begins in the main type of liver cell (hepatocyte). Other types of liver cancer, such as intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and hepatoblastoma, are much less common.
Cancer that spreads to the liver is more common than cancer that begins in the liver cells. Cancer that begins in another area of the body — such as the colon, lung or breast — and then spreads to the liver is called metastatic cancer rather than liver cancer. This type of cancer is named after the organ in which it began — such as metastatic colon cancer to describe cancer that begins in the colon and spreads to the liver.
There are no home remedies available for Liver cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Liver cancer :
Most people don't have signs and symptoms in the early stages of primary liver cancer. When signs and symptoms do appear, they may include:
Losing weight without trying
Loss of appetite
Upper abdominal pain
Nausea and vomiting
General weakness and fatigue
Abdominal swelling
Yellow discoloration of your skin and the whites of your eyes (jaundice)
White, chalky stools
Causes for Liver cancer :
Liver cancer happens when liver cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA is the material that provides instructions for every chemical process in your body. DNA mutations cause changes in these instructions. One result is that cells may begin to grow out of control and eventually form a tumor — a mass of cancerous cells.
Sometimes the cause of liver cancer is known, such as with chronic hepatitis infections. But sometimes liver cancer happens in people with no underlying diseases and it's not clear what causes it.
Risk Factors for Liver cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of primary liver cancer include:
Chronic infection with HBV or HCV. Chronic infection with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) or hepatitis C virus (HCV) increases your risk of liver cancer.
Cirrhosis. This progressive and irreversible condition causes scar tissue to form in your liver and increases your chances of developing liver cancer.
Certain inherited liver diseases. Liver diseases that can increase the risk of liver cancer include hemochromatosis and Wilson's disease.
Diabetes. People with this blood sugar disorder have a greater risk of liver cancer than those who don't have diabetes.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. An accumulation of fat in the liver increases the risk of liver cancer.
Exposure to aflatoxins. Aflatoxins are poisons produced by molds that grow on crops that are stored poorly. Crops, such as grains and nuts, can become contaminated with aflatoxins, which can end up in foods made of these products.
Excessive alcohol consumption. Consuming more than a moderate amount of alcohol daily over many years can lead to irreversible liver damage and increase your risk of liver cancer.
There are no Complications available for Liver cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Liver cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Liver disease
Overview of Liver disease:
The liver is an organ that sits just under the rib cage on the right side of the abdomen. It can weigh up to 4 pounds (1.8 kilograms). The liver is needed to help digest food, rid the body of waste products and make substances, called clotting factors, that keep the blood flowing well, among other tasks.
Liver disease can be passed through families, called inherited. Anything that damages the liver also can cause liver problems, including viruses, alcohol use and obesity.
Over time, conditions that damage the liver can lead to scarring, called cirrhosis. Cirrhosis can lead to liver failure, a life-threatening condition. But early treatment may give the liver time to heal.
There are no home remedies available for Liver disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Liver disease :
Liver disease doesn't always cause symptoms that can be seen or felt. If there are symptoms of liver disease, they may include:
Yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes, called jaundice. Yellowing of the skin might be harder to see on Black or brown skin.
Belly pain and swelling.
Swelling in the legs and ankles.
Itchy skin.
Dark urine.
Pale stool.
Constant tiredness.
Nausea or vomiting.
Loss of appetite.
Bruising easily.
Causes for Liver disease :
Liver disease has many causes.
Risk Factors for Liver disease:
Factors that can increase the risk of liver disease include:
Ongoing moderate or heavy alcohol use.
Obesity.
Type 2 diabetes.
Tattoos or body piercings.
Shared needles to inject drugs.
Blood transfusion before 1992.
Contact with other people's blood and body fluids.
Sex without protection.
Contact with chemicals or toxins.
Family history of liver disease.
Complications for Liver disease:
Complications of liver disease depend on the cause of the liver problems. Without treatment, liver disease may progress to liver failure. Liver failure can be fatal.
Preventions for Liver disease
To prevent liver disease:
If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Avoid risky behavior. Use a condom during sex. If you get tattoos or body piercings, pick a shop that's clean and safe. Seek help if you shoot illicit drugs. Don't share needles to shoot drugs.
Get vaccinated. If you're at increased risk of getting hepatitis, talk with your healthcare professional about getting the hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccines. This also is true if you've been infected with any form of the hepatitis virus.
Be careful when taking medicines. Take prescription and other medicines only when needed. Take only as much as directed. Don't mix medicines and alcohol. Talk with your healthcare provider before mixing herbal supplements or prescription or other medicines.
Stay away from other people's blood and body fluids. Hepatitis viruses can be spread by accidental needle sticks or poor cleanup of blood or body fluids.
Keep your food safe. Wash your hands well before eating or making foods. If traveling in a resource-poor country, use bottled water to drink, wash your hands and brush your teeth.
Take care with aerosol sprays. Make sure to use these products in an open area. Wear a mask when spraying insecticides, fungicides, paint and other toxic chemicals. Always follow the maker's instructions.
Protect your skin. When using insecticides and other toxic chemicals, wear gloves, long sleeves, a hat and a mask so that chemicals don't get on your skin.
Maintain a healthy weight. Obesity can cause nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, now called metabolic-associated steatotic liver disease.
Condition name:Long QT syndrome
Overview of Long QT syndrome:
Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a heart rhythm disorder that causes fast, chaotic heartbeats. The irregular heartbeats can be life-threatening. LQTS affects the electrical signals that travel through the heart and cause it to beat.
Some people are born with changes in DNA that cause long QT syndrome. This is known as congenital long QT syndrome. LQTS also can happen later in life due to some health conditions, certain medicines or changes in the levels of body minerals. This is called acquired long QT syndrome.
Long QT syndrome can cause sudden fainting and seizures. Young people with LQTS syndrome have a higher risk of sudden cardiac death.
Treatment for long QT syndrome includes lifestyle changes and medicines to prevent dangerous heartbeats. Sometimes a medical device or surgery is needed.
There are no home remedies available for Long QT syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Long QT syndrome :
The most common symptom of long QT syndrome is fainting, also called syncope. A fainting spell from LQTS can happen with little to no warning.
Fainting happens when the heart beats in an irregular way for a short time. You might faint when you're excited, angry or scared, or during exercise. If you have LQTS, things that startle you can cause you to pass out, such as a loud ringtone or an alarm clock.
Before fainting happens, some people with long QT syndrome might have symptoms such as:
Blurred vision.
Lightheadedness.
Pounding heartbeats called palpitations.
Weakness.
Long QT syndrome also can cause seizures in some people.
Babies born with LQTS may have symptoms during the first weeks to months of life. Sometimes the symptoms start later in childhood. Most people born with LQTS have symptoms by age 40. Symptoms of long QT syndrome sometimes happen during sleep.
Some people with long QT syndrome (LQTS) do not notice any symptoms. The disorder may be found during a heart test called an electrocardiogram. Or it may be discovered when genetic tests are done for other reasons.
Causes for Long QT syndrome :
Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is caused by changes in the heart's electrical signaling system. It doesn't affect the shape or form of the heart.
To understand the causes of LQTS, it may help to know how the heart usually beats.
In a typical heart, the heart sends blood out to the body during each heartbeat. The heart's chambers squeeze and relax to pump the blood. The heart's electrical system controls this coordinated action. Electrical signals called impulses move from the top to the bottom of the heart. They tell the heart when to squeeze and beat. After each heartbeat, the system recharges to prepare for the next heartbeat.
But in long QT syndrome, the heart's electrical system takes longer than usual to recover between beats. This delay is called a prolonged QT interval.
Long QT syndrome usually falls into two groups.
Congenital long QT syndrome. You're born with this type of LQTS. It's caused by changes in DNA that are passed down through families. That means it is inherited.
Acquired long QT syndrome. This type of LQTS is caused by another health condition or medicine. It usually can be reversed when the specific cause is found and treated.
Risk Factors for Long QT syndrome:
Things that may raise the risk of long QT syndrome (LQTS) include:
A history of cardiac arrest.
Having a parent, brother, sister or child with long QT syndrome.
Using medicines known to cause prolonged QT intervals.
People who are assigned female at birth who take certain heart medicines.
A lot of vomiting or diarrhea, which can cause changes in body minerals such as potassium.
Eating disorders such as anorexia nervosa, which also cause changes in the levels of body minerals.
If you have long QT syndrome and want to become pregnant, tell your healthcare professional. Your care team carefully checks you during pregnancy to help prevent things that can trigger LQTS symptoms.
Complications for Long QT syndrome:
Usually after an episode of long QT syndrome (LQTS), the heart goes back to a regular rhythm. But sudden cardiac death can happen if the heart rhythm isn't quickly corrected. The heart rhythm may reset on its own. Sometimes, treatment is needed to reset the heart rhythm.
Complications of long QT syndrome may include:
Torsades de pointes ("twisting of the points"). This is a life-threatening fast heartbeat. The heart's two lower chambers beat fast and out of rhythm. The heart pumps out less blood. The lack of blood to the brain causes sudden fainting, often without warning.
If a long QT interval lasts for a long time, fainting can be followed by a full-body seizure. If the dangerous rhythm does not correct itself, then a life-threatening arrhythmia called ventricular fibrillation follows.
Ventricular fibrillation. This type of irregular heartbeat causes the lower heart chambers to beat so fast that the heart trembles and stops pumping blood. Unless a device called a defibrillator is quickly used to correct the heart's rhythm, brain damage and death can happen.
Sudden cardiac death. This is the swift and not expected ending of all heart activity. Long QT syndrome has been linked to sudden cardiac death in young people who otherwise appear healthy. LQTS might be responsible for some unexplained events in children and young adults, such as unexplained fainting, drownings or seizures.
Proper medical treatment and lifestyle changes can help prevent complications of long QT syndrome.
Preventions for Long QT syndrome
There is no known way to prevent congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS). If someone in your family has LQTS, ask a health professional if genetic screening is right for you. With proper treatment, you can manage and prevent the dangerous heartbeats that can lead to LQTS complications.
Regular health checkups and good communication with your healthcare professional also may help prevent causes of some types of acquired long QT syndrome. It's especially important not to take medicines that can affect the heart rhythm and cause a prolonged QT interval.
Condition name:Low blood pressure (hypotension)
Overview of Low blood pressure (hypotension):
Low blood pressure is a condition in which the force of the blood pushing against the artery walls is too low. It's also called hypotension.
Blood pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). In general, low blood pressure is a reading lower than 90/60 mm Hg.
What's considered low blood pressure for one person might be OK for someone else though. Low blood pressure might cause no symptoms that you notice. Or it might cause dizziness and fainting. Sometimes, low blood pressure can be life-threatening.
The causes of low blood pressure include dehydration and other serious medical conditions. It's important to find out what's causing low blood pressure so that it can be treated, if needed.
There are no home remedies available for Low blood pressure (hypotension) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Low blood pressure (hypotension) :
Low blood pressure symptoms can include:
Blurred or fading vision.
Dizzy or lightheaded feelings.
Fainting.
Fatigue.
Trouble concentrating.
Upset stomach.
For some people, low blood pressure may be a symptom of an underlying health condition. That's especially so when blood pressure drops suddenly or when low blood pressure occurs with symptoms.
A sudden fall in blood pressure can be dangerous. A change of just 20 mm Hg can make you feel dizzy or faint. For example, those symptoms could happen after a drop in systolic pressure from 110 mm Hg to 90 mm Hg. And big drops can be life-threatening. These can happen for reasons such as serious bleeding, serious infections or allergic reactions.
Extreme low blood pressure can lead to a condition known as shock. Symptoms of shock include:
Confusion, especially in older people.
Cold, clammy skin.
Decrease in skin color, also called pallor.
Rapid, shallow breathing.
Weak and rapid pulse.
Causes for Low blood pressure (hypotension) :
Low blood pressure has various causes. Some health conditions and the use of certain medicines can cause it. Other factors affect blood pressure as well.
Blood pressure is determined by the amount of blood the heart pumps and the amount of resistance to blood flow in the arteries. A blood pressure reading has two numbers:
Top number, called systolic pressure. The top number is the pressure in the arteries when the heart beats.
Bottom number, called diastolic pressure. The bottom number is the pressure in the arteries when the heart rests between beats.
The American Heart Association classifies healthy blood pressure as normal. Normal blood pressure usually is lower than 120/80 mm Hg.
Blood pressure varies throughout the day. It depends on:
Body position.
Breathing.
Food and drink.
Medicines.
Physical condition.
Stress.
Time of day.
Blood pressure usually is lowest at night and rises sharply on waking.
Risk Factors for Low blood pressure (hypotension):
Anyone can have low blood pressure. Risk factors for hypotension include:
Age. Drops in blood pressure when standing up or after eating occur mainly in adults older than 65. Neurally mediated hypotension mainly affects children and younger adults.
Medications. Certain medicines have the potential to cause low blood pressure. These include all medicines that treat high blood pressure.
Certain diseases. Parkinson's disease, diabetes and some heart conditions can lead to low blood pressure.
Alcohol or illegal drugs. Either of these may raise the risk of low blood pressure.
Complications for Low blood pressure (hypotension):
Complications of low blood pressure can include:
Dizzy feeling.
Weakness.
Fainting.
Injury from falls.
Severely low blood pressure can lower the body's oxygen levels, which can lead to heart and brain damage.
There are no preventive measures available for Low blood pressure (hypotension) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Low sex drive in women
Overview of Low sex drive in women:
Women's levels of sexual desire change over the years. It's common for highs and lows to happen along with the start or end of a relationship. Or they can happen with major life changes such as pregnancy, menopause or illness. Some medicines used for conditions that affect mood also can cause low sex drive in women.
If your lack of interest in sex continues or returns and causes personal distress, talk with your healthcare professional. You may have a treatable condition called sexual interest-arousal disorder.
But you don't have to meet this medical definition to seek help. If you're bothered by a low or reduced sex drive, you can take steps to boost your libido. Lifestyle changes and sexual techniques may put you in the mood more often. Some medicines may offer promise as well.
There are no home remedies available for Low sex drive in women in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Low sex drive in women :
neither of you may have a sex drive that's outside what's typical for people at your stage in life.
And even if your sex drive is lower than it once was, your relationship may be strong. Bottom line: There is no magic number to define low sex drive. It varies.
Symptoms of low sex drive in women include:
Having less or no interest in any type of sexual activity, including masturbation.
Never or only seldom having sexual fantasies or thoughts.
Being sad or concerned about your lack of sexual activity or fantasies.
Causes for Low sex drive in women :
Desire for sex is based on a complex mix of many things that affect intimacy. These factors include:
Physical and emotional well-being.
Experiences.
Beliefs.
Lifestyle.
Your current relationship.
If you have challenges in any of these areas, it can affect your desire for sex.
Risk Factors for Low sex drive in women:
Factors that can raise the risk of low sex drive include:
Conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure and coronary artery disease.
Pain during sex or not being able orgasm.
Mental health conditions and life circumstances that affect your state of mind.
Various prescription medicines, including depression medicines called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors.
Surgeries related to the breasts or genital tract.
Changes in hormone levels during menopause, pregnancy or breastfeeding.
Relationship issues that lessen emotional closeness with your partner.
There are no Complications available for Low sex drive in women in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Low sex drive in women in the knowledge baseCondition name:Low sperm count
Overview of Low sperm count:
A low sperm count means there is less sperm than is typical in fluid called semen that the penis releases during orgasm.
A low sperm count also is called oligospermia (ol-ih-go-SPUR-me-uh). A complete lack of sperm is called azoospermia (ay-zoh-uh-SPUR-me-uh). Your sperm count is considered lower than typical if you have fewer than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen.
Having a low sperm count makes it less likely that one of your sperm will join with your partner's egg to start a pregnancy. If needed, there are treatments to help couples boost their chances of becoming pregnant.
There are no home remedies available for Low sperm count in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Low sperm count :
The main symptom of a low sperm count is not being able to start a pregnancy. There might be no other clear symptoms.
In some people, an underlying health condition causes a low sperm count along with other symptoms. Depending on the condition, these other symptoms can include:
Trouble with sexual function — for example, some people have low sex drive. Others have trouble getting or keeping an erection that's firm enough for sex, also called erectile dysfunction.
Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area.
Less facial or body hair or other symptoms of a chromosome or hormone condition.
Causes for Low sperm count :
For the body to make sperm, the testicles and certain organs in the brain that produce hormones need to work properly. Once sperm are made in the testicles, sperm travel in delicate tubes until they mix with semen. Then semen is released from the penis, usually during an orgasm. Issues with any of these systems can lower the number of sperm in semen.
When sperm's movement or shape is irregular, that also can lessen fertility.
Still, the cause of low sperm count often can't be found.
Risk Factors for Low sperm count:
Many risk factors are linked with low sperm count and other issues that can cause low sperm count.
Some risk factors are lifestyle choices, including:
Smoking tobacco.
Drinking alcohol.
Using certain illicit drugs.
Some health conditions can be risk factors, such as:
Being overweight.
Being very stressed.
Having certain past or present infections.
Having had trauma to the testicles.
Being born with a fertility disorder or having a blood relative with a fertility disorder.
Having certain health conditions, including tumors and long-term illnesses.
Having a history of undescended testicles.
Some treatments for health conditions also can be risk factors, including:
Cancer treatments, such as radiation.
Certain medicines.
Vasectomy or major abdominal or pelvic surgery.
Some things in a person's environment also may raise the risk of a low sperm count. These include being exposed to toxins.
Complications for Low sperm count:
Infertility caused by low sperm count can be stressful for both you and your partner. Complications can include:
Surgery or other treatments for an underlying cause of low sperm count.
Expensive and involved fertility treatments such as in vitro fertilization (IVF).
Stress from not being able to start a pregnancy.
Preventions for Low sperm count
To protect your fertility, try to stay away from known factors that can affect sperm count and quality. Take these steps:
Don't smoke.
Limit alcohol or don't drink it.
Don't use illicit drugs.
Talk with your healthcare professional to find out whether any medicines you take can affect sperm count.
Stay at a healthy weight.
Try not to become overheated.
Manage stress.
Do what you can to avoid exposure to pesticides, heavy metals and other toxins.
Condition name:Lung cancer
Overview of Lung cancer:
Lung cancer is a kind of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the lungs. The lungs are two spongy organs in the chest that control breathing.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer deaths worldwide.
People who smoke have the greatest risk of lung cancer. The risk of lung cancer increases with the length of time and number of cigarettes smoked. Quitting smoking, even after smoking for many years, significantly lowers the chances of developing lung cancer. Lung cancer also can happen in people who have never smoked.
There are no home remedies available for Lung cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lung cancer :
Lung cancer typically doesn't cause symptoms early on. Symptoms of lung cancer usually happen when the disease is advanced.
Signs and symptoms of lung cancer that happen in and around the lungs may include:
A new cough that doesn't go away.
Chest pain.
Coughing up blood, even a small amount.
Hoarseness.
Shortness of breath.
Wheezing.
Signs and symptoms that happen when lung cancer spreads to other parts of the body may include:
Bone pain.
Headache.
Losing weight without trying.
Loss of appetite.
Swelling in the face or neck.
Causes for Lung cancer :
Lung cancer happens when cells in the lungs develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Smoking causes most lung cancers. It can cause lung cancer in both people who smoke and in people exposed to secondhand smoke. But lung cancer also happens in people who never smoked or been exposed to secondhand smoke. In these people, there may be no clear cause of lung cancer.
Risk Factors for Lung cancer:
A number of factors may increase the risk of lung cancer. Some risk factors can be controlled, for instance, by quitting smoking. Other factors can't be controlled, such as your family history.
Risk factors for lung cancer include:
Complications for Lung cancer:
Lung cancer can cause complications, such as:
Preventions for Lung cancer
There's no sure way to prevent lung cancer, but you can reduce your risk if you:
Condition name:Lupus nephritis
Overview of Lupus nephritis:
Lupus nephritis is a problem that occurs often in people who have systemic lupus erythematosus, also called lupus.
Lupus is a disease in which the body's immune system attacks its own cells and organs, called autoimmune disease. Lupus causes the immune system to make proteins called autoantibodies. These proteins attack tissues and organs in the body, including the kidneys.
Lupus nephritis occurs when lupus autoantibodies affect parts of the kidneys that filter out waste. This causes swelling and irritation of the kidneys, called inflammation. It might lead to blood in the urine, protein in the urine, high blood pressure, kidneys that don't work well or even kidney failure.
There are no home remedies available for Lupus nephritis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lupus nephritis :
Signs and symptoms of lupus nephritis include:
Blood in the urine.
Urine that foams because of too much protein.
High blood pressure.
Swelling in the legs, ankles or feet and sometimes in the hands and face.
High levels of a waste product called creatinine in the blood.
Causes for Lupus nephritis :
As many as half of adults with systemic lupus get lupus nephritis. Systemic lupus causes the body's immune system to damage the kidneys. Then the kidneys can't filter out waste as they should.
Risk Factors for Lupus nephritis:
The only known risk factors for lupus nephritis are:
Being male. Women are more likely to get lupus, but men get lupus nephritis more than women do.
Race or ethnicity. Black people, Hispanic people and Asian Americans are more likely to have lupus nephritis than are whites.
Complications for Lupus nephritis:
Lupus nephritis can cause:
Hypertension.
Kidney failure.
A higher risk of getting cancer, especially one that starts in the cells of the immune system, called B-cell lymphoma.
A higher risk of heart and blood vessel problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Lupus nephritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lyme disease
Overview of Lyme disease:
Lyme disease is an illness caused by borrelia bacteria. Humans usually get Lyme disease from the bite of a tick carrying the bacteria.
Ticks that can carry borrelia bacteria live throughout most of the United States. But Lyme disease is most common in the upper Midwest and the northeastern and mid-Atlantic states. It's also common in Europe and in south central and southeastern Canada.
You're at risk of Lyme disease if you spend time where the ticks live, such as grassy, brushy or wooded areas. Taking safety measures in these areas can lower the risk of Lyme disease.
There are no home remedies available for Lyme disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lyme disease :
A tick bite may look like as a tiny, itchy bump on your skin, much like a mosquito bite. This doesn't mean you have a tick-borne disease. Many people will not notice they've had a tick bite.
The symptoms of Lyme disease vary. They usually show up in stages. But the stages can overlap. And some people don't have symptoms of the typical early stage.
Causes for Lyme disease :
Lyme disease is caused by borrelia bacteria. In North America, the black-legged tick, also called the deer tick, mainly carry the bacteria.
In Europe, a different species of borrelia causes Lyme disease. Ticks carry the bacteria. These ticks are known by a few names, including castor bean tick, sheep tick or deer tick.
Risk Factors for Lyme disease:
Your risk for getting Lyme disease depends on if you spend time where they are likely to live. This includes the:
Region. Deer ticks that carry Lyme disease are widespread. They are mostly found in the upper Midwest, the northeastern and mid-Atlantic states, and in south central and southeastern Canada. The castor bean tick is found throughout Europe.
Habitat. Ticks live in wooded, shrubby or grassy areas.
Time of year. The risk of infection is greater in the spring, summer and fall. But ticks can be active any time the temperature is above freezing.
Complications for Lyme disease:
Some people with Lyme disease report symptoms that continue after treatment. These longer-lasting symptoms may include:
Arthritis that begins with Lyme disease and doesn't improve.
Body aches and pains.
Constant or frequent tiredness.
Memory complaints.
These conditions are not clearly understood. Some people with these symptoms may be diagnosed with post-treatment Lyme disease syndrome, or PTLDS. These long-lasting problems may be caused by:
Incomplete treatment.
Reinfection with Lyme disease.
Immune system response to fragments of killed bacteria.
Immune system activity that harms healthy tissues, also called autoimmunity.
Conditions other than Lyme disease that have not been diagnosed.
Preventions for Lyme disease
The best way to prevent Lyme disease is to avoid tick bites when you are outdoors. Most ticks attach themselves to your lower legs and feet as you walk or work in grassy, wooded areas or overgrown fields. After a tick attaches to your body, it often crawls upward to find a spot to burrow into your skin.
If you're in or plan to be in an area where ticks are likely to live, follow these tips to protect yourself.
Condition name:Lymphedema
Overview of Lymphedema:
Lymphedema refers to tissue swelling caused by an accumulation of protein-rich fluid that's usually drained through the body's lymphatic system. It most commonly affects the arms or legs, but can also occur in the chest wall, abdomen, neck and genitals.
Lymph nodes are an important part of your lymphatic system. Lymphedema can be caused by cancer treatments that remove or damage your lymph nodes. Any type of problem that blocks the drainage of lymph fluid can cause lymphedema.
Severe cases of lymphedema can affect the ability to move the affected limb, increase the risks of skin infections and sepsis, and can lead to skin changes and breakdown. Treatment may include compression bandages, massage, compression stockings, sequential pneumatic pumping, careful skin care and, rarely, surgery to remove swollen tissue or to create new drainage routes.
There are no home remedies available for Lymphedema in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lymphedema :
Lymphedema signs and symptoms include:
Swelling of part or all of the arm or leg, including fingers or toes
A feeling of heaviness or tightness
Restricted range of motion
Recurring infections
Hardening and thickening of the skin (fibrosis)
Signs and symptoms can range from mild to severe. Lymphedema caused by cancer treatment may not occur until months or years after treatment.
Causes for Lymphedema :
The lymphatic system is a network of vessels that carry protein-rich lymph fluid throughout the body. It's part of your immune system. Lymph nodes act as filters and contain cells that fight infection and cancer.
The lymph fluid is pushed through the lymph vessels by muscle contractions as you move through the tasks of your day and small pumps in the wall of the lymph vessels. Lymphedema occurs when the lymph vessels are not able to adequately drain lymph fluid, usually from an arm or leg.
The most common causes of lymphedema include:
Cancer. If cancer cells block lymph vessels, lymphedema may result. For instance, a tumor growing near a lymph node or lymph vessel could enlarge enough to block the flow of the lymph fluid.
Radiation treatment for cancer. Radiation can cause scarring and inflammation of lymph nodes or lymph vessels.
Surgery. In cancer surgery, lymph nodes are often removed to see if the disease has spread. However, this doesn't always result in lymphedema.
Parasites. In developing countries in the tropics, the most common cause of lymphedema is infection with threadlike worms that clog the lymph nodes.
Less commonly, lymphedema results from inherited conditions in which the lymphatic system doesn't develop properly.
Risk Factors for Lymphedema:
Factors that may increase the risk of developing lymphedema include:
Older age
Excess weight or obesity
Rheumatoid or psoriatic arthritis
Complications for Lymphedema:
Lymphedema complications may include:
Skin infections (cellulitis). The trapped fluid provides fertile ground for germs, and the smallest injury to the arm or leg can be an entry point for infection. Affected skin appears swollen and red and is typically painful and warm to the touch. Your doctor may prescribe antibiotics to keep on hand so that you can start taking them immediately.
Sepsis. Untreated cellulitis can spread into the bloodstream and trigger sepsis — a potentially life-threatening condition that occurs when the body's response to an infection damages its own tissues. Sepsis requires emergency medical treatment.
Leakage through the skin. With severe swelling, the lymph fluid can drain through small breaks in the skin or cause blistering.
Skin changes. In some people with very severe lymphedema, the skin of the affected limb can thicken and harden so it resembles the skin of an elephant.
Cancer. A rare form of soft tissue cancer can result from the most-severe cases of untreated lymphedema.
There are no preventive measures available for Lymphedema in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lymphoma
Overview of Lymphoma:
Lymphoma is a cancer of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is part of the body's germ-fighting and disease-fighting immune system. Lymphoma begins when healthy cells in the lymphatic system change and grow out of control.
The lymphatic system includes lymph nodes. They are found throughout the body. Most lymph nodes are in the abdomen, groin, pelvis, chest, underarms and neck.
The lymphatic system also includes the spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow. Lymphoma can affect all these areas and other organs in the body.
There are many types of lymphoma. The main subtypes are:
Hodgkin lymphoma (formerly called Hodgkin disease).
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Many treatments for lymphoma exist. The treatment that's best for you will depend on the type of lymphoma you have. Treatments can control the disease and give many people with lymphoma the chance of a full recovery.
There are no home remedies available for Lymphoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lymphoma :
Signs and symptoms of lymphoma may include:
Fever.
Night sweats.
Fatigue.
Itchy skin.
Painless swelling of lymph nodes in the belly, neck, armpits or groin.
Pain in chest, abdomen or bones.
Losing weight without trying.
Causes for Lymphoma :
Healthcare professionals aren't sure what causes lymphoma. Lymphoma begins with changes in the DNA of a disease-fighting blood cell called a lymphocyte.
A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. Healthy cells die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make more cells quickly. The cancer cells can go on living when healthy cells would die.
In lymphoma, the DNA changes happen in the lymphocytes. The changes can:
Lead diseased lymphocytes to grow out of control.
Cause too many diseased lymphocytes in the lymph nodes.
Cause the lymph nodes, spleen and liver to swell.
Risk Factors for Lymphoma:
Some factors can increase the risk of lymphoma. They include:
A weakened immune system. If the immune system is weakened by medicines or illness, there might be a higher risk of lymphoma. People with a weakened immune system include those taking medicines to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. Certain health conditions, such as infection with HIV, also can weaken the immune system.
Family history. People who have a parent, sibling or child with lymphoma are at higher risk of the disease.
Specific infections. Some infections increase the risk of developing lymphoma. Examples include Epstein-Barr virus, Helicobacter pylori and HIV.
Your age. Some types of lymphoma are more common in teens and young adults. Others happen more often in people over 55.
There is no way to prevent lymphoma.
There are no Complications available for Lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Lymphoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Lynch syndrome
Overview of Lynch syndrome:
Lynch syndrome is a condition that increases the risk of many kinds of cancer. This condition is passed from parents to children.
Families that have Lynch syndrome have more instances of cancer than expected. This might include colon cancer, endometrial cancer and other types of cancer. Lynch syndrome also causes cancers to happen at an earlier age.
People with Lynch syndrome may need careful testing to look for cancer when it's small. Treatment is more likely to be successful when the cancer is caught early. Some people with Lynch syndrome might consider treatments to prevent cancer.
Lynch syndrome used to be called hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC). HNPCC is a term used to describe families with a strong history of colon cancer. Lynch syndrome is the term used when doctors find a gene that runs in the family and causes cancer.
There are no home remedies available for Lynch syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Lynch syndrome :
People with Lynch syndrome may experience:
Colon cancer before age 50
Cancer of the inside lining of the uterus (endometrial cancer) before age 50
A personal history of more than one type of cancer
A family history of cancer before age 50
A family history of other cancers caused by Lynch syndrome, including stomach cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, kidney cancer, bladder cancer, ureteral cancer, brain cancer, small intestine cancer, gallbladder cancer, bile duct cancer and skin cancer
Causes for Lynch syndrome :
Lynch syndrome is caused by genes that are passed from parents to children.
Genes are pieces of DNA. DNA is like a set of instructions for every chemical process that happens in the body.
As cells grow and make new cells as part of their lifecycle, they make copies of their DNA. Sometimes the copies have errors. The body has a set of genes that hold the instructions for finding the errors and fixing them. Doctors call these genes mismatch repair genes.
People with Lynch syndrome have mismatch repair genes that don't work as expected. If an error happens in the DNA, it might not get fixed. This could cause cells that grow out of control and become cancer cells.
Lynch syndrome runs in families in an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. This means that if one parent has genes that cause Lynch syndrome, there's a 50% chance that each child will have the genes that cause Lynch syndrome. Which parent carries the gene doesn't affect the risk.
There are no Risk Factors available for Lynch syndrome in the knowledge baseComplications for Lynch syndrome:
Knowing that you have Lynch syndrome can raise concerns about your health. It may also raise some concerns about other parts of your life. These might include:
Your privacy. You may have questions about what could happen if others find out you have Lynch syndrome. For instance, you might be concerned that your job or insurance companies might find out. A genetics professional can explain the laws that may protect you.
Your children. If you have Lynch syndrome, your children have a risk of inheriting it from you. A genetics professional can help you come up with a plan for talking about this with your children. The plan might include how and when to tell them and when they should consider testing.
Your extended family. Having Lynch syndrome has implications for your entire family. Other blood relatives may have a chance of having Lynch syndrome. A genetics professional can help you come up with the best way to tell family members.
There are no preventive measures available for Lynch syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Male breast cancer
Overview of Male breast cancer:
Male breast cancer is a rare cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the breast tissue of men.
Breast cancer is typically thought of as a condition that happens in women. But everyone is born with some breast tissue. So anyone can get breast cancer.
Male breast cancer is rare. It happens most often in older men, though it can occur at any age.
Treatment for male breast cancer typically involves surgery to remove the breast tissue. Other treatments, such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy, may be recommended as well.
There are no home remedies available for Male breast cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Male breast cancer :
Signs and symptoms of male breast cancer can include:
A painless lump or thickening of the skin on the chest.
Changes to the skin covering the chest, such as dimpling, puckering, scaling or changes in the color of the skin.
Changes to the nipple, such as changes in the skin color or scaling, or a nipple that begins to turn inward.
Discharge or bleeding from the nipple.
Causes for Male breast cancer :
It's not clear what causes male breast cancer.
Male breast cancer starts when cells in the breast tissue develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Male breast cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of male breast cancer include:
Older age. The risk of breast cancer increases with age. Male breast cancer is most often diagnosed in men in their 60s.
Hormone therapy for prostate cancer or medicines containing estrogen. If you take estrogen-related medicines, such as those used for hormone therapy for prostate cancer, your risk of breast cancer rises.
Family history of breast cancer. If you have a blood relative with breast cancer, you have a greater chance of getting the disease.
Inherited DNA changes that increase breast cancer risk. Some of the DNA changes that can lead to breast cancer are passed down from parents to children. People born with these DNA changes have a greater risk of breast cancer. For example, the DNA changes BRCA1 and BRCA2 increase the risk of male breast cancer.
Klinefelter syndrome. This genetic syndrome occurs when males are born with more than one copy of the X chromosome. Klinefelter syndrome affects the development of the testicles. It causes changes in the balance of hormones in the body, which can increase the risk of male breast cancer.
Liver disease. Certain conditions, such as cirrhosis of the liver, can change the balance of hormones in the body. This raises the risk of male breast cancer.
Obesity. Obesity is linked with higher levels of estrogen in the body. This increases the risk of male breast cancer.
Testicle disease or surgery. Having inflamed testicles, called orchitis, or surgery to remove a testicle, called orchiectomy, can increase the risk of male breast cancer.
There are no Complications available for Male breast cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Male breast cancer
For most men, there's no way to prevent male breast cancer. For those that have an increased risk of cancer, there may be ways to lower the risk.
If breast cancer runs in your family. Certain DNA changes are linked to breast cancer. If these DNA changes run in your family, you might have an increased risk of breast cancer. DNA changes that increase the risk of male breast cancer include BRCA1 and BRCA2.
If you know that a blood relative carries DNA changes linked to breast cancer, tell your doctor or other health care professional. Together you can decide whether you should have genetic testing to see if you also carry the DNA changes.
If you carry a DNA change that increases your risk, you might need breast cancer screening. Usually this involves becoming familiar with the skin and tissue on your chest. Tell your health professional if you notice any changes. You also might have an annual exam of your chest.
If you're a transgender man. If you haven't had gender-affirming surgery on your chest, talk with your doctor or other health care professional about breast cancer screening. In general, follow the screening guidelines for people assigned female at birth.
If you've had gender-affirming surgery to your chest, breast cancer is still possible, though it's rare. Often a small amount of breast tissue remains after surgery. Get to know the look and feel of the skin on your chest. Report any changes to your health care team right away.
Condition name:Male infertility
Overview of Male infertility:
Nearly 1 in 7 couples is infertile, which means they haven't been able to conceive a child even though they've had frequent, unprotected sexual intercourse for a year or longer. In up to half of these couples, male infertility plays at least a partial role.
Male infertility can be caused by low sperm production, abnormal sperm function or blockages that prevent the delivery of sperm. Illnesses, injuries, chronic health problems, lifestyle choices and other factors may contribute to male infertility.
The inability to conceive a child can be stressful and frustrating, but a number of treatments are available for male infertility.
Home Remedies for Male infertility:
There are a few steps you can take at home to increase your chances of achieving pregnancy:
Increase frequency of sex. Having sexual intercourse every day or every other day beginning at least five days before ovulation increases your chances of getting your partner pregnant.
Have sex when fertilization is possible. A woman is likely to become pregnant during ovulation â€” which occurs in the middle of the menstrual cycle, between periods. This will ensure that sperm, which can live several days, are present when conception is possible.
Avoid the use of lubricants. Products such as Astroglide or K-Y jelly, lotions, and saliva might impair sperm movement and function. Ask your doctor about sperm-safe lubricants.
Live a healthy lifestyle. Eat a variety of healthy foods, maintain a healthy weight, get enough sleep, and exercise regularly.
Avoid things that damage your overall health. Stop or reduce your use of alcohol, quit smoking, and don't use illicit drugs.
Symptoms for Male infertility :
The main sign of male infertility is the inability to conceive a child. There may be no other obvious signs or symptoms.
In some cases, however, an underlying problem such as an inherited disorder, hormonal imbalance, dilated veins around the testicle or a condition that blocks the passage of sperm causes signs and symptoms. Signs and symptoms you may notice include:
Problems with sexual function — for example, difficulty with ejaculation or small volumes of fluid ejaculated, reduced sexual desire, or difficulty maintaining an erection (erectile dysfunction)
Pain, swelling or a lump in the testicle area
Recurrent respiratory infections
Inability to smell
Abnormal breast growth (gynecomastia)
Decreased facial or body hair or other signs of a chromosomal or hormonal abnormality
A lower than normal sperm count (fewer than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen or a total sperm count of less than 39 million per ejaculate)
Causes for Male infertility :
Male fertility is a complex process. To get your partner pregnant, the following must occur:
You must produce healthy sperm. Initially, this involves the growth and formation of the male reproductive organs during puberty. At least one of your testicles must be functioning correctly, and your body must produce testosterone and other hormones to trigger and maintain sperm production.
Sperm have to be carried into the semen. Once sperm are produced in the testicles, delicate tubes transport them until they mix with semen and are ejaculated out of the penis.
There needs to be enough sperm in the semen. If the number of sperm in your semen (sperm count) is low, it decreases the odds that one of your sperm will fertilize your partner's egg. A low sperm count is fewer than 15 million sperm per milliliter of semen or fewer than 39 million per ejaculate.
Sperm must be functional and able to move. If the movement (motility) or function of your sperm is abnormal, the sperm may not be able to reach or penetrate your partner's egg.
Risk Factors for Male infertility:
Risk factors linked to male infertility include:
Smoking tobacco
Using alcohol
Using certain illicit drugs
Being overweight
Having certain past or present infections
Being exposed to toxins
Overheating the testicles
Having experienced trauma to the testicles
Having a prior vasectomy or major abdominal or pelvic surgery
Having a history of undescended testicles
Being born with a fertility disorder or having a blood relative with a fertility disorder
Having certain medical conditions, including tumors and chronic illnesses, such as sickle cell disease
Taking certain medications or undergoing medical treatments, such as surgery or radiation used for treating cancer
Complications for Male infertility:
Complications of male infertility can include:
Stress and relationship difficulties related to the inability to have a child
Expensive and involved reproductive techniques
Increased risk of testicular cancer, melanoma, colon cancer and prostate cancer
Preventions for Male infertility
Male infertility isn't always preventable. However, you can try to avoid some known causes of male infertility. For example:
Don't smoke.
Limit or abstain from alcohol.
Steer clear of illicit drugs.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Don't get a vasectomy.
Avoid things that lead to prolonged heat for the testicles.
Reduce stress.
Avoid exposure to pesticides, heavy metals and other toxins.
Condition name:Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors
Overview of Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors:
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors are rare cancers that start in the lining of the nerves. These cancers happen in the nerves that run from the spinal cord into the body, called peripheral nerves. Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors used to be called neurofibrosarcomas.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors can happen anywhere in the body. They mostly occur in the deep tissue of the arms, legs and trunk. They tend to cause pain and weakness where they occur. They might also cause a growing lump or mass.
Surgery is the usual treatment for malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors. Sometimes, treatment might include radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors :
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors often cause symptoms that get worse quickly. Symptoms include:
Pain where the tumor is growing.
Weakness when trying to move the body part that has the tumor.
A growing lump of tissue under the skin.
Causes for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors :
It's not clear what causes most malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors.
Experts know that these cancers begin when a cell in the lining around a nerve gets changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to make more cells quickly. These cells continue to live when healthy cells die as part of their life cycle.
The cells then can form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow into and kill healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can spread to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors:
Factors that increase the risk of malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors include:
Radiation therapy for cancer. A malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor might occur in the area treated with radiation 10 to 20 years after treatment.
Noncancerous nerve tumors. Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors can develop from nerve tumors that aren't cancerous, such as neurofibroma.
A condition that runs in families. Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors occur more often in people with neurofibromatosis 1. This condition increases the risk of tumors in the nerves.
There are no Complications available for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Marfan syndrome
Overview of Marfan syndrome:
Marfan syndrome is an inherited disorder that affects connective tissue — the fibers that support and anchor your organs and other structures in your body. Marfan syndrome most commonly affects the heart, eyes, blood vessels and skeleton.
People with Marfan syndrome are usually tall and thin with unusually long arms, legs, fingers and toes. The damage caused by Marfan syndrome can be mild or severe. If your aorta — the large blood vessel that carries blood from your heart to the rest of your body — is affected, the condition can become life-threatening.
Treatment usually includes medications to keep your blood pressure low to reduce the strain on your aorta. Regular monitoring to check for damage progression is vital. Many people with Marfan syndrome eventually require preventive surgery to repair the aorta.
Home Remedies for Marfan syndrome:
You may need to avoid competitive sports and certain recreational activities if you're at increased risk of aortic dissection or rupture. Increases in blood pressure, common in activities such as weightlifting, place extra strain on the aorta. Less intense activities â€” such as brisk walking, bowling, doubles tennis or golf â€” are generally safer.
Symptoms for Marfan syndrome :
The signs and symptoms of Marfan syndrome can vary greatly, even among members of the same family, because the disorder can affect so many different areas of the body. Some people experience only mild effects, but others develop life-threatening complications.
Marfan syndrome features may include:
Tall and slender build
Disproportionately long arms, legs and fingers
A breastbone that protrudes outward or dips inward
A high, arched palate and crowded teeth
Heart murmurs
Extreme nearsightedness
An abnormally curved spine
Flat feet
Causes for Marfan syndrome :
Marfan syndrome is caused by a defect in the gene that enables your body to produce a protein that helps give connective tissue its elasticity and strength.
Most people with Marfan syndrome inherit the abnormal gene from a parent who has the disorder. Each child of an affected parent has a 50-50 chance of inheriting the defective gene. In about 25% of the people who have Marfan syndrome, the abnormal gene comes from neither parent. In these cases, a new mutation develops spontaneously.
Risk Factors for Marfan syndrome:
Marfan syndrome affects men and women equally and occurs among all races and ethnic groups. Because it's a genetic condition, the greatest risk factor for Marfan syndrome is having a parent with the disorder.
Complications for Marfan syndrome:
Because Marfan syndrome can affect almost any part of your body, it may cause a wide variety of complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Marfan syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mastitis
Overview of Mastitis:
Mastitis is swelling and redness, called inflammation, of breast tissue. It sometimes involves an infection. Besides causing swelling and redness, mastitis causes breast pain and warmth. An infection also can cause fever and chills.
Mastitis most often affects people who are breastfeeding. This is called lactation mastitis. But mastitis can happen to people who aren't breastfeeding.
Lactation mastitis can cause you to feel run down, making it hard to care for your baby. Sometimes mastitis causes people to wean their babies earlier than they meant to. But continuing to breastfeed is better for you and your baby. This is true even if you're taking an antibiotic.
Home Remedies for Mastitis:
To help yourself feel better:
Don't let your breasts fill up with too much milk between breastfeeding sessions.
Put a cool cloth or ice pack on your breast after breastfeeding.
Wear a bra that supports your breasts.
Rest as much as you can.
Symptoms for Mastitis :
Symptoms of mastitis can appear suddenly. They may be in one or both breasts. Symptoms may include:
Breast tenderness or warmth.
Breast swelling.
Thickening of breast tissue, or a breast lump.
Pain or a burning feeling all the time or while breastfeeding.
Skin redness, often in a wedge-shaped pattern. The redness may be harder to see on Black or brown skin.
Feeling ill.
Fever of 101 degrees Fahrenheit (38.3 degrees Celsius) or greater.
Causes for Mastitis :
Milk that is trapped in the breast is the main cause of mastitis. Other causes include:
A blocked milk duct. If a breast doesn't empty all the way during feedings, one of the milk ducts can get clogged. Then milk backs up, leading to breast infection.
Germs going into the breast. Germs from the skin's surface and baby's mouth can enter the milk ducts. This can happen through a crack in the skin of the nipple or through a milk duct opening. Germs can grow in milk that stays in a breast that isn't emptied.
Risk Factors for Mastitis:
Risk factors for mastitis include:
Having a history of mastitis.
Having sore or cracked nipples.
Putting pressure on a breast that restricts milk flow. Wearing a tight bra or using a tight seat belt can cause pressure.
Not nursing correctly.
Being overly tired or stressed.
Eating poorly.
Smoking.
Complications for Mastitis:
Mastitis that isn't treated or that is due to a blocked duct can cause pus to build up in the breast. This is called an abscess. An abscess most often needs to be drained surgically.
To avoid this complication, talk with your healthcare professional as soon as you get symptoms of mastitis. You may need to take a course of antibiotics.
Preventions for Mastitis
Before you start breastfeeding, think about meeting with a breastfeeding specialist, called a lactation consultant. This can help you avoid complications such as mastitis.
Lower your chances of getting mastitis by following these tips:
Feed your baby on demand or let out milk with your hand, called expressing, often.
Fully drain the milk from your breasts while breastfeeding.
Let your baby empty one breast all the way before switching to the other breast during feeding.
Change the position you use to breastfeed from one feeding to the next.
Make sure your baby latches on well during feedings.
If you smoke, talk with your healthcare professional about how to quit.
Condition name:MCAD deficiency
Overview of MCAD deficiency:
Medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency is an inherited disorder that prevents your body from breaking down certain fats and turning them into energy. Your metabolism involves the processes your body uses to produce energy. MCAD deficiency can cause problems with your metabolism.
If left untreated, MCAD deficiency may lead to severe lack of energy and tiredness, liver disease, coma, and other serious health problems. Also, the level of sugar in your blood can drop dangerously low — a condition called hypoglycemia. Prevention and prompt treatment are essential regardless of blood sugar level. If you have MCAD deficiency, a sudden episode, called a metabolic crisis, can be caused by common illnesses, high fever, stomach problems or going too long without eating, known as prolonged fasting.
MCAD deficiency is present from birth and is a lifelong condition. In the United States, all states test for MCAD deficiency at birth as part of newborn screening. Many other countries also provide routine newborn screening for MCAD deficiency. If MCAD deficiency is diagnosed and treated early, the disorder can be well managed through diet and lifestyle.
Home Remedies for MCAD deficiency:
Parent and family understanding of the condition is critical to ongoing care and prevention of low blood sugar episodes and other complications. Prevention tips include:
Avoid skipping meals.
Eat complex carbohydrates before extra activity or exercise.
Eat complex carbohydrates before going to bed.
Increase calories with extra complex carbohydrates during illness or stress.
Always carry complex carbohydrate snacks.
Always carry a source of simple carbohydrates to treat low blood sugar.
Know the warning signs of low blood sugar and other symptoms of a metabolic crisis.
If you or your child have MCAD deficiency, wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace and carry a medical card. This lets health care providers know of your condition, even in an emergency. Ask your health care provider about information for health professionals that you can carry with you in case emergency care is needed.
Symptoms for MCAD deficiency :
MCAD deficiency is usually first identified in babies and young children. In rare cases, the disorder is not diagnosed until adulthood.
Symptoms can vary among people with MCAD deficiency. They may include:
Vomiting.
Low or no energy.
Weak feeling.
Low blood sugar.
A sudden severe episode, called a metabolic crisis, can be due to:
Going too long without eating.
Missing meals.
Common infections.
High fever.
Ongoing stomach and digestive problems that may cause vomiting and diarrhea.
Intense exercise.
Causes for MCAD deficiency :
When you don't have enough of the MCAD enzyme in your body, certain fats called medium-chain fatty acids can't be broken down and turned into energy. This leads to low energy and low blood sugar. Also, fatty acids can build up in body tissues and cause damage.
MCAD deficiency is caused by a change in the ACADM gene. The condition is inherited from both parents in an autosomal recessive pattern. This means that both parents are carriers — each has one changed gene and one unchanged gene — but they don't have symptoms of the condition. The child with MCAD deficiency inherits two copies of the changed gene — one from each parent.
If you inherit only one changed gene, you won't develop MCAD deficiency. With one changed gene, you are a carrier and can pass the changed gene to your children. But they wouldn't develop the condition unless they also inherited a changed gene from their other parent.
Risk Factors for MCAD deficiency:
A child is at risk of MCAD deficiency if both parents are carriers of a gene known to cause it. The child then inherits two copies of the gene — one from each parent. Children who inherit only one copy of the affected gene from one parent typically won't develop MCAD deficiency but will be carriers of the gene.
Complications for MCAD deficiency:
If metabolic crisis caused by MCAD deficiency is left untreated, it can lead to:
Seizures.
Liver problems.
Brain damage.
Coma.
Sudden death.
There are no preventive measures available for MCAD deficiency in the knowledge baseCondition name:Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS)
Overview of Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS):
Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) occurs when the arc-shaped band of tissue in the chest area (median arcuate ligament) presses on the artery that sends blood to the upper abdomen. The artery is called the celiac artery. MALS can cause stomach pain in some people.
The location of the median arcuate ligament and celiac artery varies slightly from person to person. Typically, the ligament runs across the largest blood vessel in the body (aorta). It sits above the celiac artery. But sometimes the ligament or artery may be out of place, causing MALS. The ligament may also put pressure on the network of nerves surrounding the celiac artery (celiac plexus).
MALS may occur in anyone, even children. Other names for MALS are:
Celiac artery compression
Celiac axis syndrome
Dunbar syndrome
Treatment involves surgery to release (decompress) the ligament and restore blood flow through the artery.
Home Remedies for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS):
Pain and stress often occur in a cycle. Pain can make you feel stressed, and stress can make pain worse. MALS pain may make it difficult to eat, exercise, sleep and do everyday tasks.
Relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing and meditation, may ease pain and boost your mental health.
Symptoms for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) :
Often, compression of the celiac artery doesn't cause any symptoms.
However, those with median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) can have long-term (chronic) stomach pain. The symptoms may be due to a lack of blood flow through the celiac artery or compression on nerves in the area.
Symptoms of MALS include:
Pain in the upper middle stomach area, which may go away when leaning forward
Stomach pain after eating, exercising or changing body position
Bloating
Diarrhea
Fear of eating food due to pain, leading to significant weight loss — usually greater than 20 pounds (9.1 kilograms)
Nausea and vomiting
Causes for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) :
Doctors aren't exactly sure what causes median arcuate ligament syndrome. The causes and diagnosis of MALS are a subject of controversy.
Risk Factors for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS):
Because the cause of MALS is poorly understood, the risk factors for the syndrome are unclear. MALS has been seen in children, even twins, which might mean genetics plays a role.
Some people have developed MALS after pancreatic surgery and blunt injury to the upper stomach area.
Complications for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS):
MALS complications include long-term pain, especially after meals. The pain can lead to a fear of eating and significant weight loss. The pain and related depression or anxiety can greatly impact quality of life. MALS symptoms may be vague and can mimic other conditions. It may take some time to get an accurate diagnosis.
There are no preventive measures available for Median arcuate ligament syndrome (MALS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Medication overuse headaches
Overview of Medication overuse headaches:
Medication overuse headaches — also known as rebound headaches — are caused by the long-term use of medicines to treat headaches such as migraines. Pain relievers offer relief for occasional headaches. But if you take them more than a couple of days a week, they may trigger headaches.
If you have a headache disorder such as migraine, most medicines you take for pain relief can have this effect. However, this doesn't appear to be true for people who have never had a headache disorder. In people without a history of headaches, taking pain relievers regularly for another condition such as arthritis hasn't been shown to cause medication overuse headaches.
Medication overuse headaches usually go away when you stop taking pain medicine. This can be challenging in the short term. But your health care provider can help you find ways to beat medication overuse headaches for the long-term.
There are no home remedies available for Medication overuse headaches in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Medication overuse headaches :
Symptoms of medication overuse headaches may vary. They can depend on the type of headache being treated and the medicine used. Medication overuse headaches tend to:
Occur every day or nearly every day. They often wake you in the early morning.
Improve with pain medicine but then return as the medicine wears off.
Other symptoms may include:
Nausea.
Restlessness.
Trouble concentrating.
Memory problems.
Irritability.
Causes for Medication overuse headaches :
Experts don't yet know exactly why medication overuse headaches occur. The risk of developing them varies depending on the medicine. But most headache medicines have the potential to lead to medication overuse headaches, including:
Simple pain relievers. Common pain relievers such as aspirin and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may contribute to medication overuse headaches. This is especially true if you take more than the recommended daily dosages. Other pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) have a low risk of contributing to medication overuse headaches.
Combination pain relievers. Pain relievers you can buy at the store that combine caffeine, aspirin and acetaminophen (Excedrin, others) are common culprits.
This group also includes combination prescription medicines that contain the sedative butalbital (Butapap, Lanorinal, others). Butalbital-containing medicines have an especially high risk of causing medication overuse headaches. It's best not to take them to treat headaches.
Migraine medicines. Various migraine medicines have been linked with medication overuse headaches. They include triptans (Imitrex, Zomig, others) and certain headache medicines known as ergots, such as ergotamine (Ergomar). These medicines have a moderate risk of causing medication overuse headaches. The ergot dihydroergotamine (Migranal, Trudhesa) appears to have a lower risk of causing medication overuse headaches.
A newer group of migraine medicines known as gepants don't appear to cause medication overuse headaches. Gepants include ubrogepant (Ubrelvy) and rimegepant (Nurtec ODT).
Opioids. Painkillers derived from opium or from synthetic opium compounds have a high risk of causing medication overuse headaches. They include combinations of codeine and acetaminophen.
Daily doses of caffeine also may fuel medication overuse headaches. Caffeine may come from coffee, soda, pain relievers and other products. Read product labels to make sure you're not getting more caffeine than you realize.
Risk Factors for Medication overuse headaches:
Risk factors for developing medication overuse headaches include:
History of lifelong headaches. A history of lifelong headaches, especially migraines, puts you at risk.
Regular use of headache medicines. Your risk increases if you use combination painkillers, opioids, ergotamine or triptans 10 or more days a month. Risk also increases if you use simple painkillers more than 15 days a month. This is especially true if you use these medicines for three months or longer.
History of substance use disorders. A history of alcohol use disorder or another substance use disorder puts you at risk.
There are no Complications available for Medication overuse headaches in the knowledge basePreventions for Medication overuse headaches
To help prevent medication overuse headaches:
Take your headache medicine as prescribed.
Contact your health care provider if you need headache medicine more than twice a week.
Don't take medicines that contain butalbital or opioids unless it's necessary.
Use nonprescription painkillers less than 15 days a month.
Limit use of triptans or combination pain relievers to no more than nine days a month.
Taking care of yourself can help prevent most headaches.
Avoid headache triggers. If you're not sure what triggers your headaches, keep a headache diary. Write down details about every headache. You may see a pattern.
Get enough sleep. Go to bed and wake up at the same time every day, even on weekends.
Don't skip meals. Start your day with a healthy breakfast. Eat lunch and dinner at about the same time every day.
Stay hydrated. Be sure to drink plenty of water or other fluids that don't contain caffeine.
Exercise regularly. Physical activity causes the body to release chemicals that block pain signals to the brain. With your health care provider's OK, choose activities you enjoy. You might choose to walk, swim or cycle.
Reduce stress. Get organized. Simplify your schedule, and plan ahead. Try to stay positive.
Lose weight. Obesity can contribute to headaches. If you need to lose weight, find a program that works for you.
Quit smoking. If you smoke, talk to your health care provider about quitting. Smoking is linked to a higher risk of medication overuse headaches.
Condition name:Medulloblastoma
Overview of Medulloblastoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Medulloblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Medulloblastoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Medulloblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Medulloblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Medulloblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Medulloblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Melanoma
Overview of Melanoma:
Melanoma is a kind of skin cancer that starts in the melanocytes. Melanocytes are cells that make the pigment that gives skin its color. The pigment is called melanin.
Melanoma typically starts on skin that's often exposed to the sun. This includes the skin on the arms, back, face and legs. Melanoma also can form in the eyes. Rarely, it can happen inside the body, such as in the nose or throat.
The exact cause of all melanomas isn't clear. Most melanomas are caused by exposure to ultraviolet light. Ultraviolet light, also called UV light, comes from sunlight or tanning lamps and beds. Limiting exposure to UV light can help reduce the risk of melanoma.
The risk of melanoma seems to be increasing in people under 40, especially women. Knowing the symptoms of skin cancer can help ensure that cancerous changes are detected and treated before the cancer has spread. Melanoma can be treated successfully if it is found early.
There are no home remedies available for Melanoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Melanoma :
The first melanoma signs and symptoms often are:
A change in an existing mole.
The development of a new pigmented or unusual-looking growth on the skin.
Melanoma doesn't always begin as a mole. It also can happen on otherwise healthy skin.
Melanomas symptoms can happen anywhere on the body. Melanomas most often develop in areas that have had exposure to the sun. This includes the arms, back, face and legs.
Melanomas also can happen in areas that aren't as exposed to the sun. This includes the soles of the feet, palms of the hands and fingernail beds. Melanoma also can happen inside the body. These hidden melanomas are more common in people with brown or Black skin.
Causes for Melanoma :
Melanoma happens when something changes healthy melanocytes into cancer cells. Melanocytes are skin cells that make pigment that gives skin its color. The pigment is called melanin.
Melanoma starts when melanocytes develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
It isn't clear what changes the DNA in skin cells and how it leads to melanoma. It's likely a combination of factors, including environmental and genetic factors. Still, healthcare professionals believe exposure to ultraviolet light is the leading cause of melanoma. Ultraviolet light, also called UV light, comes from the sun and from tanning lamps and beds.
UV light doesn't cause all melanomas, especially those that occur in places on your body that don't receive exposure to sunlight. This means that other factors may contribute to your risk of melanoma.
Risk Factors for Melanoma:
Factors that may increase the risk of melanoma include:
A family history of melanoma. If a close relative has had melanoma, you have a greater chance of developing a melanoma, too. Close relatives may include a parent, child or sibling.
A history of sunburn. One or more severe, blistering sunburns can increase your risk of melanoma.
Exposure to UV light. The ultraviolet light, also called UV light, that comes from the sun and from tanning lights and beds increases the risk of skin cancer, including melanoma.
Having many moles or moles that aren't typical. Having more than 50 typical moles on your body indicates an increased risk of melanoma. Also, having a type of mole that isn't typical increases the risk of melanoma. Known medically as dysplastic nevi, these moles tend to be larger than typical moles. They may have unusual borders and a mixture of colors.
Living closer to the equator or at a higher elevation. People living closer to the earth's equator experience more direct sun rays. Therefore, they experience higher amounts of UV light from the sun than people living farther north or south. Also, people who live at a higher elevation are more exposed to UV light.
Skin that sunburns easily. Anyone can get melanoma, but it's most common in people with white skin. If you have blond or red hair, light-colored eyes, and freckle or sunburn easily, you're more likely to develop melanoma.
Weakened immune system. If the body's germ-fighting immune system is weakened by medications or illness, there might be a higher risk of melanoma and other skin cancers. People with a weakened immune system include those taking medicines to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. Certain medical conditions, such as infection with HIV, can weaken the immune system.
There are no Complications available for Melanoma in the knowledge basePreventions for Melanoma
You can reduce your risk of melanoma and other types of skin cancer if you:
Avoid tanning lamps and beds. Tanning lamps and beds give off ultraviolet light, also called UV light. Exposure to this kind of light can increase your risk of skin cancer.
Avoid the sun during the middle of the day. For many people in North America, the sun's rays are strongest between about 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Schedule outdoor activities for other times of the day, even in winter or when the sky is cloudy.
Become familiar with your skin so that you'll notice changes. Check your skin often for new skin growths. Look for changes in existing moles, freckles, bumps and birthmarks. With the help of mirrors, check your face, neck, ears and scalp.
Look at your chest and trunk and the tops and undersides of your arms and hands. Check both the front and back of your legs and your feet, including the soles and the spaces between your toes. Also check your genital area and between your buttocks.
Wear protective clothing. When you go outside during the day, wear clothes that help protect your skin from the sun's rays. Cover your skin with dark, tightly woven clothing that covers your arms and legs. Wear a broad-brimmed hat, which provides more protection than does a baseball cap or visor. Some companies also sell protective clothing. A dermatologist can recommend an appropriate brand.
Don't forget sunglasses. Look for those that block both types of UV light that come from the sun, called UVA and UVB.
Wear sunscreen year-round. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously. Reapply every two hours, or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Condition name:Meniere's disease
Overview of Meniere's disease:
Meniere's disease is an inner ear problem that can cause dizzy spells, also called vertigo, and hearing loss. Most of the time, Meniere's disease affects only one ear.
Meniere's disease can happen at any age. But it usually starts between the ages of 40 to 60. It's thought to be a lifelong condition. But some treatments can help ease symptoms and lessen how it affects your life long term.
Home Remedies for Meniere's disease:
You may be able to improve some symptoms of Meniere's disease with self-care tips. Think about trying these tips during a vertigo attack:
Sit or lie down when you feel dizzy. Avoid things that can make your symptoms worse, such as sudden movement, bright lights, watching television or reading. Try to focus on an object that isn't moving.
Rest during and after attacks. Don't rush to return to your normal activities. If you feel tired, rest in bed for a short time. Then, slowly get up and move around when you can. This helps the brain readjust your balance signals.
Prepare for an attack ahead of time. Talk to your healthcare provider about ways you can prepare for a vertigo attack. Talk about medicines you can take for dizziness. And ask about when to go to the hospital or how to prevent injuries, such as a fall.
Lifestyle changes
To avoid causing a vertigo attack, try the following.
Limit salt. Eating foods and having drinks high in salt can boost the amount of water in your body. For overall health, aim for less than 2,300 milligrams of sodium each day. Experts also suggest spreading your salt intake evenly throughout the day.
Limit caffeine, alcohol and tobacco. These substances can cause vertigo attacks in some people. Try keeping a journal to track your symptoms and find possible causes.
Symptoms for Meniere's disease :
Symptoms of Meniere's disease include:
Regular dizzy spells. You have a spinning feeling that starts and stops suddenly. Vertigo may start without warning. It usually lasts 20 minutes to 12 hours, but not more than 24 hours. Serious vertigo can cause nausea.
Hearing loss. Hearing loss in Meniere's disease may come and go, especially early on. Over time, hearing loss can be long-lasting and not get better.
Ringing in the ear. Ringing in the ear is called tinnitus. Tinnitus is the term for when you have a ringing, buzzing, roaring, whistling or hissing sound in your ear.
Feeling of fullness in the ear. People with Meniere's disease often feel pressure in the ear. This is called aural fullness.
After a vertigo attack, symptoms get better and might go away for a while. Over time, how many vertigo attacks you have may lessen.
Causes for Meniere's disease :
The cause of Meniere's disease isn't known. Symptoms of Meniere's disease may be due to extra fluid in the inner ear called endolymph. But it isn't clear what causes this fluid to build up in the inner ear.
Issues that affect the fluid, which might lead to Meniere's disease, include:
Poor fluid drainage. This may be due to a blockage or irregular ear shape.
Autoimmune disorders.
Viral infection.
Genetics.
Because no single cause has been found, Meniere's disease likely has a combination of causes.
Risk Factors for Meniere's disease:
Meniere's disease is most common in people ages 40 to 60. Females may have a slightly higher risk than men.
You may have a higher chance of getting Meniere's disease if someone in your family has had the condition.
You may have a higher risk of Meniere's disease if you have an autoimmune disorder.
Complications for Meniere's disease:
The most difficult complications of Meniere's disease can be:
Unexpected vertigo attacks.
Possibly losing your hearing long term.
The disease can happen at any time. This can cause worry and stress.
Vertigo can cause you to lose balance. This can increase your risk of falls and accidents.
There are no preventive measures available for Meniere's disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Meningioma
Overview of Meningioma:
A meningioma is a tumor that grows from the membranes that surround the brain and spinal cord, called the meninges. A meningioma is not a brain tumor, but it may press on the nearby brain, nerves and vessels. Meningioma is the most common type of tumor that forms in the head.
Most meningiomas grow very slowly. They can grow over many years without causing symptoms. But sometimes, their effects on nearby brain tissue, nerves or vessels may cause serious disability.
Meningiomas occur more often in women. They're often found at older ages. But they can happen at any age.
Because most meningiomas grow slowly, often without symptoms, they do not always need treatment right away. Instead, they may be watched over time.
There are no home remedies available for Meningioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Meningioma :
Symptoms of a meningioma most often begin slowly. They may be hard to notice at first. Symptoms may depend on where in the brain the meningioma is. Rarely, it can be in the spine.
Symptoms may include:
Changes in vision, such as seeing double or blurring.
Headaches that are worse in the morning.
Hearing loss or ringing in the ears.
Memory loss.
Loss of smell.
Seizures.
Weakness in the arms or legs.
Trouble speaking.
Causes for Meningioma :
It isn't clear what causes a meningioma. Experts know that something changes some cells in the meninges. The changes makes them multiply out of control. This leads to a meningioma.
Being exposed to radiation as a child is the only known environmental risk factor for getting meningioma. There's no good evidence to show that meningiomas happen because of cellphone use.
Risk Factors for Meningioma:
Risk factors for a meningioma include:
Radiation treatment. Radiation therapy that involves the head may increase the risk of a meningioma.
Female hormones. Meningiomas are more common in women. This might mean that female hormones may play a role. Some studies also have suggested a link between breast cancer and meningioma risk related to the role of hormones. Some research suggests that the use of oral birth control and hormone replacement therapy could raise the risk of meningioma growth.
An inherited nervous system condition. The rare condition neurofibromatosis 2 increases the risk of meningioma and other brain tumors.
Obesity. A high body mass index (BMI) is a risk factor for many types of cancers. Several large studies have found that meningiomas happen more often in obese people. But the link between obesity and meningiomas is not clear.
Complications for Meningioma:
A meningioma and its treatment can cause long-term complications. Treatment most often involves surgery and radiation therapy. Complications may include:
Trouble focusing.
Memory loss.
Personality changes.
Seizures.
Weakness.
Changes in the senses.
Trouble with language.
Your healthcare professional can treat some complications and refer you to specialists to help you cope with other complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Meningioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Meningitis
Overview of Meningitis:
Meningitis is an infection and swelling, called inflammation, of the fluid and membranes around the brain and spinal cord. These membranes are called meninges.
The inflammation from meningitis most often triggers symptoms such as headache, fever and a stiff neck.
Viral infections are the most common cause of meningitis in the United States. Bacteria, parasites and fungi also can cause it. Sometimes meningitis improves in a few weeks without treatment. But meningitis also can cause death. It often needs quick treatment with antibiotics.
Seek medical care right away if you think that you or someone in your family has meningitis. For meningitis caused by bacteria, early treatment can prevent serious complications.
There are no home remedies available for Meningitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Meningitis :
Early meningitis symptoms may be like those of the flu. Symptoms may come on over several hours or over a few days.
Causes for Meningitis :
Viral infections are the most common cause of meningitis in the United States, followed by bacterial infections and, rarely, fungal and parasitic infections. Because bacterial infections can lead to death, finding the cause is vital.
Risk Factors for Meningitis:
Risk factors for meningitis include:
Not getting vaccinations. Risk rises for anyone who hasn't gotten all the childhood or adult vaccinations.
Age. Viral meningitis most often happens in children younger than age 5 years. Bacterial meningitis is common in those younger than age 20 years.
Living in groups. College students living in dorms, people on military bases, and children in boarding schools and child care facilities are at greater risk of meningococcal meningitis. This is probably because the germ quickly spreads through large groups.
Pregnancy. Pregnancy increases the risk of an infection caused by listeria bacteria, which also may cause meningitis. The infection raises the risk of miscarriage, stillbirth and premature delivery.
Weakened immune system. AIDS, alcohol use disorder, diabetes, medicines that lower the immune system and other factors that affect the immune system raise the risk of meningitis. Having a spleen removed also raises risk. For people without a spleen, a vaccine can lower the risk.
Complications for Meningitis:
Meningitis complications can be serious. The longer someone has the disease without treatment, the greater the risk of seizures and long-term nervous system damage. Damage can include:
Hearing loss.
Trouble with vision.
Memory issues.
Learning disabilities.
Brain damage.
Trouble walking.
Seizures.
Kidney failure.
Shock.
Death.
Preventions for Meningitis
Common germs that can cause meningitis can spread through coughing, sneezing or kissing. Germs also can spread by shared eating utensils, toothbrushes or cigarettes.
These steps can help prevent meningitis:
Wash your hands. Careful hand-washing helps prevent the spread of germs. Teach children to wash their hands often. Teach them to wash hands before eating and after using the toilet, spending time in a crowded public place, or petting animals. Show them how to wash and rinse their hands well.
Practice good hygiene. Don't share drinks, foods, straws, eating utensils, lip balms or toothbrushes with anyone. Teach children and teens to avoid sharing these items too.
Stay healthy. Keep your immune system strong by getting enough rest, exercising regularly, and eating a good diet with fresh fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Cover your mouth. When you need to cough or sneeze, be sure to cover your mouth and nose. Even better, cough or sneeze into your shoulder.
If you're pregnant, watch what you eat. Reduce your risk of a listeria infection by cooking meat, including hot dogs and lunch meats, to 165 degrees Fahrenheit (74 degrees Celsius). Eat only cheeses made from milk that has been pasteurized to kill germs. Check labels to be sure cheeses are made with pasteurized milk.
Condition name:Menopause
Overview of Menopause:
Menopause is when periods stop for good. It's diagnosed after 12 months without a menstrual period, vaginal bleeding or spotting. Menopause can happen in the 40s or 50s. But the average age is 51 in the United States.
Menopause is natural. But the physical symptoms, such as hot flashes, and emotional symptoms of menopause may disrupt sleep, lower energy or affect mood. There are many treatments, from lifestyle changes to hormone therapy.
Home Remedies for Menopause:
Many of the symptoms menopause causes go away on their own in time. In the meantime, the following might help:
Cool hot flashes. Dress in layers, wear sleeveless tops and wear fabrics that breathe, such as cotton. Lower room temperatures and use hand or room fans. Put cold packs under your pillow and turn the pillow often so your head is on the cool side.
It might also help to avoid triggers such as caffeine, alcohol and spicy foods.
Ease vaginal pain. Try a water-based vaginal lubricant (Astroglide, Sliquid, others) or a silicone-based lubricant or moisturizer (Replens, K-Y Liquibeads, others). You can get these without a prescription.
Stay sexually active by yourself or with a partner. This also can ease vaginal discomfort by increasing blood flow to the vagina.
Get enough sleep. Skip caffeine and alcohol, which can make it harder to sleep. Exercise during the day, but not right before bedtime. If hot flashes disturb your sleep, find a way to help manage them so you can get better rest.
Find ways to relax. There's little proof that deep breathing, guided imagery, massage and muscle relaxation can ease menopausal symptoms. But finding ways to relax is good for overall health and may help you cope with menopausal symptoms. You can learn how through books and websites.
Strengthen your pelvic floor. Pelvic floor muscle exercises, called Kegel exercises, can improve some forms of urinary incontinence.
Eat a balanced diet. Include a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit saturated fats, oils and sugars. Ask your healthcare professional if you need calcium or vitamin D supplements.
Manage weight. Studies show that being obese is linked to having more and worse hot flashes. Losing weight and keeping it off may help ease them. Talk with your healthcare professional if you need help losing weight.
Don't smoke. Smoking increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, osteoporosis, cancer and a range of other health problems. It also may increase hot flashes and bring on earlier menopause.
Exercise regularly. Get regular physical activity or exercise on most days to help protect against heart disease, diabetes, osteoporosis and other conditions associated with aging.
Symptoms for Menopause :
Most often, menopause happens over time. The months or years leading up to menopause are called perimenopause or the menopausal transition.
During the transition, the amount of hormones your ovaries make varies. Perimenopause can last 2 to 8 years. The average is about four years.
The hormone changes can cause symptoms such as:
Irregular periods.
Vaginal dryness.
Hot flashes.
Night sweats.
Sleep problems.
Mood changes.
Trouble finding words and remembering, often called brain fog.
Different people have different menopause symptoms. Most often, periods are not regular before they end.
Skipped periods during perimenopause are common and expected. Often, menstrual periods skip a month and return. Or they skip a few months and then start monthly cycles again for a few months.
Period cycles tend to get shorter in early perimenopause, so periods are closer together. As menopause gets closer, periods get farther apart for months before they end.
You can still get pregnant during this time. If you've skipped a period but aren't sure it's due to menopause, think about taking a pregnancy test.
Causes for Menopause :
Menopause can result from:
Natural decline of hormones. As you enter your late 30s, your ovaries start making less of the hormones that control your period. These are called estrogen and progesterone. With lower levels of them, it's harder to get pregnant.
In your 40s, your menstrual periods may get longer or shorter, heavier or lighter, and happen more often or less often. In time, your ovaries stop releasing eggs. Then you have no more periods. This happens on average around age 51.
Surgery that removes the ovaries, called oophorectomy. Ovaries make hormones, including estrogen and progesterone, that control the menstrual cycle. Surgery to remove the ovaries causes instant menopause.
Your periods stop. You're likely to have hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms. Symptoms can be severe because the surgery causes hormones to drop all at once rather than slowly over several years.
Surgery that removes the uterus but not the ovaries, called hysterectomy, most often doesn't cause instant menopause. You no longer have periods. But your ovaries still release eggs and make estrogen and progesterone for a time.
Chemotherapy and radiation therapy. These cancer therapies can cause menopause. They can cause symptoms such as hot flashes during or shortly after treatment. Periods sometimes return after chemotherapy. Then you can still get pregnant. So you might want to keep using birth control.
Radiation therapy aimed at the pelvis, belly and lower spine can cause menopause. Radiation to the whole body for stem cell transplant also can cause menopause. Radiation therapy to other parts of the body, such as breast tissue or the head and neck, likely won't affect menopause.
Primary ovarian insufficiency. About 1% of people who have menopause get it before age 40. This is called premature menopause. Premature menopause may result from the ovaries not making the usual levels of hormones. This is called primary ovarian insufficiency. It can happen from gene changes or an autoimmune disease.
Often no cause of premature menopause can be found. Then healthcare professionals most often suggest hormone therapy. Taken at least until the typical age of menopause, hormone therapy can protect the brain, heart and bones.
Risk Factors for Menopause:
People assigned female at birth go through menopause. The main risk factor is reaching the age of menopause.
Other risk factors include:
Surgery to remove the ovaries.
Certain cancer treatments.
Complications for Menopause:
After menopause, your risk of certain medical conditions increases. Examples include:
Heart and blood vessel disease. This also is called cardiovascular disease. When your estrogen levels fall, your risk of cardiovascular disease increases. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in both women and men.
Weakened bones, called osteoporosis. This condition causes bones to become brittle and weak, leading to a greater risk of breaking bones. During the first few years after menopause, you may lose bone density quickly. This ups your risk of osteoporosis. Bones often broken after menopause include the spine, hips and wrists.
Loss of bladder control, called urinary incontinence. As the tissues of your vagina and urethra change, you may have sudden, strong urges to urinate often. Then you might lose urine, called urge incontinence. Or you might lose urine with coughing, laughing or lifting, called stress incontinence. You may have urinary tract infections more often.
Sex problems. Menopause causes the vagina to get drier and lose its stretch. This can cause discomfort and slight bleeding during sexual intercourse. Also, less feeling in the area may lessen your desire for sex, called libido.
Weight gain. Many women gain weight during and after menopause because calorie burning, called metabolism, slows.
There are no preventive measures available for Menopause in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mental illness
Overview of Mental illness:
Mental illness, also called mental health disorders, refers to a wide range of mental health conditions — disorders that affect your mood, thinking and behavior. Examples of mental illness include depression, anxiety disorders, schizophrenia, eating disorders and addictive behaviors.
Many people have mental health concerns from time to time. But a mental health concern becomes a mental illness when ongoing signs and symptoms cause frequent stress and affect your ability to function.
A mental illness can make you miserable and can cause problems in your daily life, such as at school or work or in relationships. In most cases, symptoms can be managed with a combination of medications and talk therapy (psychotherapy).
Home Remedies for Mental illness:
In most cases, a mental illness won't get better if you try to treat it on your own without professional care. But you can do some things for yourself that will build on your treatment plan:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions. Even if you're feeling better, don't skip your medications. If you stop, symptoms may come back. And you could have withdrawal-like symptoms if you stop a medication too suddenly. If you have bothersome drug side effects or other problems with treatment, talk to your doctor before making changes.
Avoid alcohol and drug use. Using alcohol or recreational drugs can make it difficult to treat a mental illness. If you're addicted, quitting can be a real challenge. If you can't quit on your own, see your doctor or find a support group to help you.
Stay active. Exercise can help you manage symptoms of depression, stress and anxiety. Physical activity can also counteract the effects of some psychiatric medications that may cause weight gain. Consider walking, swimming, gardening or any form of physical activity that you enjoy. Even light physical activity can make a difference.
Make healthy choices. Maintaining a regular schedule that includes sufficient sleep, healthy eating and regular physical activity are important to your mental health.
Don't make important decisions when your symptoms are severe. Avoid decision-making when you're in the depth of mental illness symptoms, since you may not be thinking clearly.
Determine priorities. You may reduce the impact of your mental illness by managing time and energy. Cut back on obligations when necessary and set reasonable goals. Give yourself permission to do less when symptoms are worse. You may find it helpful to make a list of daily tasks or use a planner to structure your time and stay organized.
Learn to adopt a positive attitude. Focusing on the positive things in your life can make your life better and may even improve your health. Try to accept changes when they occur, and keep problems in perspective. Stress management techniques, including relaxation methods, may help.
Symptoms for Mental illness :
Signs and symptoms of mental illness can vary, depending on the disorder, circumstances and other factors. Mental illness symptoms can affect emotions, thoughts and behaviors.
Examples of signs and symptoms include:
Feeling sad or down
Confused thinking or reduced ability to concentrate
Excessive fears or worries, or extreme feelings of guilt
Extreme mood changes of highs and lows
Withdrawal from friends and activities
Significant tiredness, low energy or problems sleeping
Detachment from reality (delusions), paranoia or hallucinations
Inability to cope with daily problems or stress
Trouble understanding and relating to situations and to people
Problems with alcohol or drug use
Major changes in eating habits
Sex drive changes
Excessive anger, hostility or violence
Suicidal thinking
Sometimes symptoms of a mental health disorder appear as physical problems, such as stomach pain, back pain, headaches, or other unexplained aches and pains.
Causes for Mental illness :
Mental illnesses, in general, are thought to be caused by a variety of genetic and environmental factors:
Inherited traits. Mental illness is more common in people whose blood relatives also have a mental illness. Certain genes may increase your risk of developing a mental illness, and your life situation may trigger it.
Environmental exposures before birth. Exposure to environmental stressors, inflammatory conditions, toxins, alcohol or drugs while in the womb can sometimes be linked to mental illness.
Brain chemistry. Neurotransmitters are naturally occurring brain chemicals that carry signals to other parts of your brain and body. When the neural networks involving these chemicals are impaired, the function of nerve receptors and nerve systems change, leading to depression and other emotional disorders.
Risk Factors for Mental illness:
Certain factors may increase your risk of developing a mental illness, including:
A history of mental illness in a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling
Stressful life situations, such as financial problems, a loved one's death or a divorce
An ongoing (chronic) medical condition, such as diabetes
Brain damage as a result of a serious injury (traumatic brain injury), such as a violent blow to the head
Traumatic experiences, such as military combat or assault
Use of alcohol or recreational drugs
A childhood history of abuse or neglect
Few friends or few healthy relationships
A previous mental illness
Mental illness is common. About 1 in 5 adults has a mental illness in any given year. Mental illness can begin at any age, from childhood through later adult years, but most cases begin earlier in life.
The effects of mental illness can be temporary or long lasting. You also can have more than one mental health disorder at the same time. For example, you may have depression and a substance use disorder.
Complications for Mental illness:
Mental illness is a leading cause of disability. Untreated mental illness can cause severe emotional, behavioral and physical health problems. Complications sometimes linked to mental illness include:
Unhappiness and decreased enjoyment of life
Family conflicts
Relationship difficulties
Social isolation
Problems with tobacco, alcohol and other drugs
Missed work or school, or other problems related to work or school
Legal and financial problems
Poverty and homelessness
Self-harm and harm to others, including suicide or homicide
Weakened immune system, so your body has a hard time resisting infections
Heart disease and other medical conditions
Preventions for Mental illness
There's no sure way to prevent mental illness. However, if you have a mental illness, taking steps to control stress, to increase your resilience and to boost low self-esteem may help keep your symptoms under control. Follow these steps:
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Consider involving family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Get routine medical care. Don't neglect checkups or skip visits to your primary care provider, especially if you aren't feeling well. You may have a new health problem that needs to be treated, or you may be experiencing side effects of medication.
Get help when you need it. Mental health conditions can be harder to treat if you wait until symptoms get bad. Long-term maintenance treatment also may help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Take good care of yourself. Sufficient sleep, healthy eating and regular physical activity are important. Try to maintain a regular schedule. Talk to your primary care provider if you have trouble sleeping or if you have questions about diet and physical activity.
Condition name:Meralgia paresthetica
Overview of Meralgia paresthetica:
Meralgia paresthetica is a condition that causes tingling, numbness and burning pain in the outer thigh. It's caused by compression of the nerve that provides feeling to the skin covering the thigh. Meralgia paresthetica also is known as lateral femoral cutaneous nerve entrapment.
Tight clothing, obesity or weight gain, and pregnancy are common causes of meralgia paresthetica. But meralgia paresthetica also can be due to an injury or a disease such as diabetes.
Meralgia paresthetica often can be relieved with conservative measures, including wearing looser clothing. If symptoms aren't relieved by those measures, treatment may include medicines. Rarely, surgery is needed.
There are no home remedies available for Meralgia paresthetica in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Meralgia paresthetica :
Meralgia paresthetica may cause these symptoms in the outer part of the thigh:
Tingling.
Burning pain.
Decreased feeling or numbness.
Increased sensitivity and pain to even a light touch.
These symptoms commonly occur on one side of your body and might intensify after walking or standing.
Causes for Meralgia paresthetica :
Meralgia paresthetica occurs when the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve is pinched, also known as compression. The nerve supplies feeling to the surface of the outer thigh. The nerve only affects sensation and doesn't impact your ability to use your leg muscles.
In most people, this nerve passes through the groin to the upper thigh without trouble. But in meralgia paresthetica, the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve becomes trapped. Often the inguinal ligament pinches the nerve. This ligament runs along the groin from the stomach to the upper thigh.
Common causes of this compression include any condition that increases pressure on the groin, including:
Tight clothing, such as belts, corsets and tight pants.
Obesity or weight gain.
Wearing a heavy tool belt.
Pregnancy.
Fluid accumulation in the abdomen causing increased abdominal pressure.
Scar tissue near the inguinal ligament due to injury or past surgery.
Nerve injury also can cause meralgia paresthetica. Nerve injury can be due to diabetes, trauma after surgery or seat belt injury after a motor vehicle accident.
Risk Factors for Meralgia paresthetica:
The following might increase your risk of meralgia paresthetica:
Extra weight. Being overweight or obese can increase the pressure on your lateral femoral cutaneous nerve.
Pregnancy. A growing belly puts added pressure on your groin, through which the lateral femoral cutaneous nerve passes.
Diabetes. Diabetes-related nerve injury can lead to meralgia paresthetica.
Age. People between ages 30 and 60 are at a higher risk.
There are no Complications available for Meralgia paresthetica in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Meralgia paresthetica in the knowledge baseCondition name:Merkel cell carcinoma
Overview of Merkel cell carcinoma:
Merkel cell carcinoma is a rare type of skin cancer that usually appears as a flesh-colored or bluish-red nodule, often on your face, head or neck. Merkel cell carcinoma is also called neuroendocrine carcinoma of the skin.
Merkel cell carcinoma most often develops in older people. Long-term sun exposure or a weak immune system may increase your risk of developing Merkel cell carcinoma.
Merkel cell carcinoma tends to grow fast and to spread quickly to other parts of your body. Treatment options for Merkel cell carcinoma often depend on whether the cancer has spread beyond the skin.
There are no home remedies available for Merkel cell carcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Merkel cell carcinoma :
The first sign of Merkel cell carcinoma is usually a fast-growing, painless nodule (tumor) on your skin. The nodule may be skin-colored or may appear in shades of red, blue or purple. Most Merkel cell carcinomas appear on the face, head or neck, but they can develop anywhere on your body, even on areas not exposed to sunlight.
Causes for Merkel cell carcinoma :
It's not clear what causes Merkel cell carcinoma. Merkel cell carcinoma begins in the Merkel cells. Merkel cells are found at the base of the outermost layer of your skin (epidermis). Merkel cells are connected to the nerve endings in the skin that are responsible for the sense of touch.
Researchers recently discovered that a common virus plays a role in causing most cases of Merkel cell carcinoma. The virus (Merkel cell polyomavirus) lives on the skin and doesn't cause any signs or symptoms. Just how this virus causes Merkel cell carcinoma has yet to be determined. Given that the virus is very common and Merkel cell carcinoma is very rare, it's likely that other risk factors play a role in the development of this cancer.
Risk Factors for Merkel cell carcinoma:
Factors that may increase your risk of Merkel cell carcinoma include:
Excessive exposure to natural or artificial sunlight. Being exposed to ultraviolet light, such as the light that comes from the sun or from tanning beds, increases your risk of Merkel cell carcinoma. The majority of Merkel cell carcinomas appear on skin surfaces frequently exposed to sun.
A weakened immune system. People with weakened immune systems — including those with HIV infection, those taking drugs that suppress the immune response or those with chronic leukemias — are more likely to develop Merkel cell carcinoma.
History of other skin cancers. Merkel cell carcinoma is associated with the development of other skin cancers, such as basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma.
Older age. Your risk of Merkel cell carcinoma increases as you age. This cancer is most common in people older than age 50, though it can occur at any age.
Light skin color. Merkel cell carcinoma usually arises in people who have light-colored skin. Whites are much more likely to be affected by this skin cancer than are blacks.
There are no Complications available for Merkel cell carcinoma in the knowledge basePreventions for Merkel cell carcinoma
While exposure to sunlight isn't proved to cause Merkel cell carcinoma, it is considered a risk factor for this cancer. Reducing your sun exposure may reduce your risk of skin cancer. Try to:
Avoid the sun during peak hours. Avoid sun exposure as much as possible during the strongest sunlight hours of the day — typically from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Move your outdoor activities to a time earlier in the morning or later in the day.
Shield your skin and eyes. Wear a wide-brimmed hat, tightly woven clothing and sunglasses with ultraviolet (UV) light protection.
Apply sunscreen liberally and often. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring.
Watch for changes. If you notice a mole, freckle or bump that's changing in size, shape or color, talk to your doctor. Most skin nodules never become cancer, but catching cancer in its early stages increases the chances that treatment will be successful.
Condition name:Mesenteric ischemia
Overview of Mesenteric ischemia:
Mesenteric ischemia (mez-un-TER-ik is-KEE-me-uh) is a condition that happens when narrowed or blocked arteries restrict blood flow to your small intestine. Decreased blood flow can permanently damage the small intestine.
Sudden loss of blood flow to the small intestine is called acute mesenteric ischemia. The acute type is often caused by a blood clot and requires an immediate treatment, such as surgery.
Mesenteric ischemia that develops over time is called chronic mesenteric ischemia. The chronic type is usually caused by a buildup of fatty deposits in the arteries. Chronic mesenteric ischemia is treated with open surgery or a procedure called angioplasty.
Chronic mesenteric ischemia can become acute if it's not treated. It also can lead to severe weight loss and malnutrition.
There are no home remedies available for Mesenteric ischemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Mesenteric ischemia :
Not found
Causes for Mesenteric ischemia :
Both acute and chronic mesenteric ischemia are caused by a decrease in blood flow to the small intestine. Acute mesenteric ischemia is most commonly caused by a blood clot in the main mesenteric artery. The blood clot often starts in the heart. The chronic form is most commonly caused by a buildup of fatty deposits, called plaque, that narrows the arteries.
Risk Factors for Mesenteric ischemia:
The most common risk factors for acute mesenteric ischemia include:
Atrial fibrillation — an irregular and often very rapid heart rhythm.
Congestive heart failure — a condition in which the heart muscle doesn't pump blood as well as it should.
Recent vascular surgery.
The most common risk factors for chronic mesenteric ischemia include:
Type 2 diabetes.
High cholesterol levels.
High blood pressure.
Artery disease.
Smoking.
Obesity.
Older age.
Complications for Mesenteric ischemia:
If not treated promptly, acute mesenteric ischemia can lead to:
Irreversible bowel damage. Not getting enough blood flow to the bowel can cause parts of the bowel to die.
Sepsis. This potentially life-threatening condition is caused by the body releasing chemicals into the bloodstream to fight infection. In sepsis, the body overreacts to the chemicals, triggering changes that can lead to multiple organ failure.
Death. Both of the above complications may lead to death.
People with chronic mesenteric ischemia can develop:
Fear of eating. This happens because of the after-meal pain associated with the condition.
Weight loss that isn't intended. This can occur as a result of the fear of eating.
Acute-on-chronic mesenteric ischemia. Symptoms of chronic mesenteric ischemia can get worse, leading to the acute form of the condition.
There are no preventive measures available for Mesenteric ischemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mesenteric lymphadenitis
Overview of Mesenteric lymphadenitis:
Lymphadenitis is a condition in which the small round or bean-shaped clusters of cells, called lymph nodes, become swollen and inflamed. The swelling can affect the lymph nodes in the membrane that connects the bowel to the wall around the stomach area, called the mesentery. Then the condition is called mesenteric lymphadenitis (mez-un-TER-ik lim-fad-uh-NIE-tis).
An infection in the intestines, such as a virus, is the usual cause of mesenteric lymphadenitis. Also called mesenteric adenitis, the condition mainly affects children and teens.
Mesenteric lymphadenitis can act like appendicitis or a condition in which part of the intestine slides into another part of the intestine, called intussusception. Unlike appendicitis or intussusception, mesenteric lymphadenitis usually clears up on its own.
Home Remedies for Mesenteric lymphadenitis:
For symptoms of mesenteric lymphadenitis, have your child:
Get plenty of rest. Enough rest can help your child recover.
Drink fluids. Liquids help prevent loss of body fluids, called dehydration, from fever, vomiting and diarrhea.
Apply moist heat. A warm, moist washcloth applied to the stomach area can help ease discomfort.
Eat a liquid diet in small amounts. For example, eat broth or chicken noodle soup.
Symptoms for Mesenteric lymphadenitis :
Possible symptoms of mesenteric lymphadenitis include:
Pain in the stomach area, often on the lower right side, but the pain can be more spread out.
General tenderness of the stomach area.
Fever.
Enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes.
Depending on what's causing the condition, symptoms also might include:
Diarrhea.
Nausea and vomiting.
Causes for Mesenteric lymphadenitis :
The most common cause of mesenteric lymphadenitis is a viral infection, such as gastroenteritis. Gastroenteritis is often called stomach flu. This infection causes inflammation and swelling in the lymph nodes in the thin tissue that attaches the intestine to the back of the wall around the stomach area, called mesentery.
Other causes of mesenteric lymphadenitis include bacterial infection, inflammatory bowel disease and lymphoma.
Risk Factors for Mesenteric lymphadenitis:
Any infection that causes inflammation and swelling in the lymph nodes in the tissue that attaches the bowel to the abdominal wall increases the risk of mesenteric lymphadenitis.
Conditions that raise the risk of mesenteric lymphadenitis include:
Viral or bacterial gastroenteritis.
Inflammatory bowel disease.
Lymphoma.
There are no Complications available for Mesenteric lymphadenitis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Mesenteric lymphadenitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mesothelioma
Overview of Mesothelioma:
Malignant mesothelioma (me-zoe-thee-lee-O-muh) is a type of cancer that occurs in the thin layer of tissue that covers the majority of your internal organs (mesothelium).
Mesothelioma is an aggressive and deadly form of cancer. Mesothelioma treatments are available, but for many people with mesothelioma, a cure isn't possible.
Doctors divide mesothelioma into different types based on what part of the mesothelium is affected. Mesothelioma most often affects the tissue that surrounds the lungs (pleura). This type is called pleural mesothelioma. Other, rarer types of mesothelioma affect tissue in the abdomen (peritoneal mesothelioma), around the heart and around the testicles.
There are no home remedies available for Mesothelioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Mesothelioma :
Signs and symptoms of mesothelioma vary depending on where the cancer occurs.
Pleural mesothelioma, which affects the tissue that surrounds the lungs, causes signs and symptoms that may include:
Chest pain
Painful coughing
Shortness of breath
Unusual lumps of tissue under the skin on your chest
Unexplained weight loss
Peritoneal mesothelioma, which occurs in tissue in the abdomen, causes signs and symptoms that may include:
Abdominal pain
Abdominal swelling
Nausea
Unexplained weight loss
Signs and symptoms of other types of mesothelioma are unclear, since these forms of the disease are very rare.
Pericardial mesothelioma, which affects tissue that surrounds the heart, can cause signs and symptoms such as breathing difficulty and chest pains.
Mesothelioma of tunica vaginalis, which affects tissue surrounding the testicles, may be first detected as swelling or a mass on a testicle.
Causes for Mesothelioma :
In general, cancer begins when a series of changes (mutations) happens in a cell's DNA. The DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The mutations tell the cell to grow and multiply out of control. The abnormal cells accumulate and form a tumor.
It isn't clear what causes the initial genetic mutations that lead to mesothelioma, though researchers have identified factors that may increase the risk. It's likely that cancers form because of an interaction between many factors, such as inherited conditions, your environment, your health conditions and your lifestyle choices.
There are no Risk Factors available for Mesothelioma in the knowledge baseComplications for Mesothelioma:
As pleural mesothelioma spreads in the chest, it puts pressure on the structures in that area. This can cause complications, such as:
Difficulty breathing
Chest pain
Difficulty swallowing
Pain caused by pressure on the nerves and spinal cord
Accumulation of fluid in the chest (pleural effusion), which can compress the lung nearby and make breathing difficult
Preventions for Mesothelioma
Reducing your exposure to asbestos may lower your risk of mesothelioma.
Condition name:Metachromatic leukodystrophy
Overview of Metachromatic leukodystrophy:
Metachromatic leukodystrophy is a rare hereditary (genetic) disorder that causes fatty substances (lipids) to build up in cells, particularly in the brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves. This buildup is caused by a deficiency of an enzyme that helps break down lipids called sulfatides. The brain and nervous system progressively lose function because the substance that covers and protects the nerve cells (myelin) is damaged.
There are three forms of metachromatic leukodystrophy, which involve different age ranges: late infantile form, juvenile form and adult form. Signs and symptoms can vary. The infantile form is the most common and progresses more rapidly than the other forms.
There is no cure for metachromatic leukodystrophy yet. Depending on the form and age of onset, early identification and treatment may help manage some signs and symptoms and delay progression of the disorder.
There are no home remedies available for Metachromatic leukodystrophy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Metachromatic leukodystrophy :
Damage to the protective myelin covering the nerves results in progressive worsening of brain and nervous system functions, including:
Loss of the ability to detect sensations, such as touch, pain, heat and sound
Loss of intellectual, thinking and memory skills
Loss of motor skills, such as walking, moving, speaking and swallowing
Stiff, rigid muscles, poor muscle function and paralysis
Loss of bladder and bowel function
Gallbladder problems
Blindness
Hearing loss
Seizures
Emotional and behavioral problems, including unstable emotions and substance misuse
Each form of metachromatic leukodystrophy occurs at a different age and can have different initial signs and symptoms and rates of progression:
Late infantile form. This is the most common form of metachromatic leukodystrophy, starting around 2 years of age or younger. Progressive loss of speech and muscle function occurs rapidly. Children with this form often do not survive beyond childhood.
Juvenile form. This is the second most common form and starts in children between 3 and 16 years of age. Early signs are behavior and cognitive problems and increasing difficulty in school. Loss of the ability to walk may occur. Although the juvenile form doesn't progress as fast as the late infantile form, survival is generally less than 20 years after symptoms begin.
Adult form. This form is less common and typically starts after age 16. Signs progress slowly and may begin with behavior and psychiatric problems, drug and alcohol misuse, and issues with school and work. Psychotic symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations may occur. The course of this form varies, with periods of stable symptoms and periods of rapid decline in functioning. Adults may survive for several decades after initial symptoms.
Causes for Metachromatic leukodystrophy :
Metachromatic leukodystrophy is an inherited disorder caused by an abnormal (mutated) gene. The condition is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. The abnormal recessive gene is located on one of the nonsex chromosomes (autosomes). To inherit an autosomal recessive disorder, both parents must be carriers, but they do not typically show signs of the condition. The affected child inherits two copies of the abnormal gene — one from each parent.
The most common cause of metachromatic leukodystrophy is a mutation in the ARSA gene. This mutation results in a lack of the enzyme that breaks down lipids called sulfatides that build up in the myelin.
Rarely, metachromatic leukodystrophy is caused by a deficiency in another kind of protein (activator protein) that breaks down sulfatides. This is caused by a mutation in the PSAP gene.
The buildup of sulfatides is toxic, destroying the myelin-producing cells — also called white matter — that protect the nerves. This results in damage to the function of nerve cells in the brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves.
There are no Risk Factors available for Metachromatic leukodystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Metachromatic leukodystrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Metachromatic leukodystrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Microscopic colitis
Overview of Microscopic colitis:
Microscopic colitis is swelling and irritation, called inflammation, of the large intestine. This large intestine is also called the colon. Microscopic colitis causes symptoms of watery diarrhea.
The condition gets its name from needing to look at colon tissue under a microscope to diagnose it. The tissue appears typical on exam with a colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy.
There are two subtypes of microscopic colitis:
Collagenous colitis, in which a thick layer of protein called collagen grows in colon tissue.
Lymphocytic colitis, in which white blood cells called lymphocytes increase in colon tissue.
Researchers believe collagenous (kuh-LAYJ-uh-nus) colitis and lymphocytic colitis may be forms of the same condition. Symptoms, testing and treatment are the same for both subtypes.
Home Remedies for Microscopic colitis:
Changes to your diet may help relieve the diarrhea of microscopic colitis. Try to:
Drink plenty of fluids. Water is best, but fluids with added sodium and potassium, called electrolytes, may help as well. Try drinking broth or watered-down fruit juice. Don't drink beverages that are high in sugar or sorbitol or contain alcohol or caffeine, such as coffee, tea and colas. These can make symptoms worse.
Choose soft, easy-to-digest foods. These include applesauce, bananas, melons and rice. Don't eat high-fiber foods such as beans and nuts. Eat only well-cooked vegetables. If you think your symptoms are getting better, slowly add high-fiber foods back to your diet. Talk to your healthcare professional about how long to continue this type of diet.
Eat several small meals rather than a few large meals. Spacing meals throughout the day may ease diarrhea.
Avoid irritating foods. Stay away from spicy, fatty or fried foods and any other foods that make your symptoms worse.
Symptoms for Microscopic colitis :
Symptoms of microscopic colitis include:
Watery diarrhea.
Belly pain, cramps or bloating.
Weight loss.
Nausea.
Not being able to control bowel movements, called fecal incontinence.
The body not having enough water, called dehydration.
The symptoms of microscopic colitis can come and go. At times, symptoms improve on their own.
Causes for Microscopic colitis :
It's not clear what causes the swelling and irritation, called inflammation, of the colon found in microscopic colitis. Researchers believe that the causes may include:
Medicines that can inflame the lining of the colon.
Bile acid not absorbed as it should be that inflames the lining of the colon.
Bacteria that make toxins or viruses that interact with the lining of the colon.
Autoimmune disease linked to microscopic colitis, such as rheumatoid arthritis, celiac disease or psoriasis. Autoimmune disease happens when the body's immune system attacks healthy tissues.
Risk Factors for Microscopic colitis:
Risk factors for microscopic colitis include:
Age. Microscopic colitis is most common in people older than age 50.
Sex. Women are more likely to have microscopic colitis than are men. Some studies suggest a link between post-menopausal hormone therapy and microscopic colitis.
Autoimmune disease. People with microscopic colitis sometimes also have an autoimmune disorder, such as celiac disease, thyroid disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes or psoriasis.
Genetic link. Research suggests that there may be a link between microscopic colitis and a family history of irritable bowel syndrome.
Smoking. Recent research studies have shown a link between tobacco smoking and microscopic colitis, mostly in people ages 16 to 44.
Some research studies show a link between using certain medicines that may increase the risk of microscopic colitis. But not all studies agree.
Medicines that may be linked to the condition include:
Pain relievers, such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Proton pump inhibitors including lansoprazole (Prevacid), esomeprazole (Nexium), pantoprazole (Protonix), rabeprazole (Aciphex), omeprazole (Prilosec) and dexlansoprazole (Dexilant).
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) such as sertraline (Zoloft).
Acarbose.
Flutamide.
Ranitidine.
Carbamazepine (Carbatrol, Tegretol, others).
Clozapine (Clozaril, Versacloz).
Entacapone (Comtan).
Paroxetine (Paxil).
Simvastatin (Flolipid, Zocor).
Topiramate (Topamax, Qsymia, others).
Complications for Microscopic colitis:
There are minimal complications for most people once microscopic colitis is successfully treated. The condition does not increase the risk of colon cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Microscopic colitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Migraine
Overview of Migraine:
A migraine is a headache that can cause severe throbbing pain or a pulsing sensation, usually on one side of the head. It's often accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and extreme sensitivity to light and sound. Migraine attacks can last for hours to days, and the pain can be so bad that it interferes with your daily activities.
For some people, a warning symptom known as an aura occurs before or with the headache. An aura can include visual disturbances, such as flashes of light or blind spots, or other disturbances, such as tingling on one side of the face or in an arm or leg and difficulty speaking.
Medications can help prevent some migraines and make them less painful. The right medicines, combined with self-help remedies and lifestyle changes, might help.
Home Remedies for Migraine:
When symptoms of migraine start, try heading to a quiet, darkened room. Close your eyes and rest or take a nap. Place a cool cloth or ice pack wrapped in a towel or cloth on your forehead and drink lots of water.
These practices might also soothe migraine pain:
Try relaxation techniques. Biofeedback and other forms of relaxation training teach you ways to deal with stressful situations, which might help reduce the number of migraines you have.
Develop a sleeping and eating routine. Don't sleep too much or too little. Set and follow a consistent sleep and wake schedule daily. Try to eat meals at the same time every day.
Drink plenty of fluids. Staying hydrated, particularly with water, might help.
Keep a headache diary. Recording your symptoms in a headache diary will help you learn more about what triggers your migraines and what treatment is most effective. It will also help your health care provider diagnose your condition and track your progress in between visits.
Exercise regularly. Regular aerobic exercise reduces tension and can help prevent a migraine. If your care provider agrees, choose aerobic activity you enjoy, such as walking, swimming and cycling. Warm up slowly, however, because sudden, intense exercise can cause headaches.
Regular exercise can also help you lose weight or maintain a healthy body weight, and obesity is thought to be a factor in migraines.
More Information
Migraine care at Mayo Clinic
Alleviating migraine pain
Symptoms for Migraine :
Migraines, which affect children and teenagers as well as adults, can progress through four stages: prodrome, aura, attack and post-drome. Not everyone who has migraines goes through all stages.
Causes for Migraine :
Though migraine causes aren't fully understood, genetics and environmental factors appear to play a role.
Changes in the brainstem and its interactions with the trigeminal nerve, a major pain pathway, might be involved. So might imbalances in brain chemicals — including serotonin, which helps regulate pain in your nervous system.
Researchers are studying the role of serotonin in migraines. Other neurotransmitters play a role in the pain of migraine, including calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP).
Risk Factors for Migraine:
Several factors make you more prone to having migraines, including:
Family history. If you have a family member with migraines, then you have a good chance of developing them too.
Age. Migraines can begin at any age, though the first often occurs during adolescence. Migraines tend to peak during your 30s, and gradually become less severe and less frequent in the following decades.
Sex. Women are three times more likely than men to have migraines.
Hormonal changes. For women who have migraines, headaches might begin just before or shortly after onset of menstruation. They might also change during pregnancy or menopause. Migraines generally improve after menopause.
Complications for Migraine:
Taking painkillers too often can trigger serious medication-overuse headaches. The risk seems to be highest with aspirin, acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) and caffeine combinations. Overuse headaches may also occur if you take aspirin or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) for more than 14 days a month or triptans, sumatriptan (Imitrex, Tosymra) or rizatriptan (Maxalt) for more than nine days a month.
Medication-overuse headaches occur when medications stop relieving pain and begin to cause headaches. You then use more pain medication, which continues the cycle.
There are no preventive measures available for Migraine in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)
Overview of Mild cognitive impairment (MCI):
Mild cognitive impairment is the in-between stage between typical thinking skills and dementia. The condition causes memory loss and trouble with language and judgment, but it doesn't affect daily activities.
People with mild cognitive impairment, also known as MCI, may be aware that their memory or mental ability has changed. Family and close friends also may notice changes. But these changes aren't bad enough to impact daily life or affect usual activities.
MCI raises the risk of developing dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease or other brain conditions. But for some people with mild cognitive impairment, symptoms might never get worse or even get better.
Home Remedies for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI):
Study results have been mixed about whether diet, exercise or other healthy lifestyle choices can prevent or reverse mild cognitive impairment. Regardless, these healthy choices promote good overall health and may play a role in good brain health.
Regular physical exercise has known benefits for heart health. It also may help prevent or slow a decline in thinking skills.
A diet low in fat and rich in fruits and vegetables is another heart-healthy choice that also may help protect brain health.
Omega-3 fatty acids are good for the heart. Most research on omega-3s that shows a possible benefit for brain health looks at how much fish people eat.
Keeping your brain active may prevent a decline in thinking skills. Studies have shown that playing games, playing an instrument, reading books and other activities may help preserve brain function.
Being social may make life more satisfying, help preserve mental abilities and slow mental decline.
Memory training and other cognitive training may help improve your symptoms.
More Information
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) care at Mayo Clinic
HABIT program orientation
Symptoms for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) :
Symptoms of mild cognitive impairment, also known as MCI, include trouble with memory, language and judgment. The symptoms are more serious than the memory issues that are expected as people get older. But the symptoms don't affect daily life at work or at home.
The brain, like the rest of the body, changes with age. Many people notice they become more forgetful as they age. It may take longer to think of a word or to recall a person's name. But if concerns with memory go beyond what's expected, the symptoms may be due to mild cognitive impairment.
People with MCI may have symptoms that include:
Forgetting things more often.
Missing appointments or social events.
Losing their train of thought. Or not following the plot of a book or movie.
Trouble following a conversation.
Trouble finding the right word or with language.
Finding it hard to make decisions, finish a task or follow instructions.
Trouble finding their way around places they know well.
Poor judgment.
Changes that are noticed by family and friends.
People with MCI also may experience:
Depression.
Anxiety.
A short temper and aggression.
A lack of interest.
Causes for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) :
There's no single cause of mild cognitive impairment. In some people, mild cognitive impairment is due to Alzheimer's disease. But there's no single outcome. Symptoms may remain stable for years or they may improve over time. Or mild cognitive impairment may progress to Alzheimer's disease dementia or another type of dementia.
Mild cognitive impairment, also known as MCI, often involves the same types of brain changes seen in Alzheimer's disease or other dementias. But in MCI, the changes occur at a lesser degree. Some of these changes have been seen in autopsy studies of people with mild cognitive impairment.
These changes include:
Clumps of beta-amyloid protein, called plaques, and neurofibrillary tangles of tau proteins that are seen in Alzheimer's disease.
Microscopic clumps of a protein called Lewy bodies. These clumps are related to Parkinson's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies and, sometimes, Alzheimer's disease.
Small strokes or less blood flow through brain blood vessels.
Brain-imaging studies show that the following changes may be related to MCI:
Decreased size of the hippocampus, an area of the brain important for memory.
Larger size of the brain's fluid-filled spaces, known as ventricles.
Reduced use of glucose in key brain areas. Glucose is the sugar that is the main source of energy for cells.
Risk Factors for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI):
The strongest risk factors for mild cognitive impairment are:
Older age.
Having a form of a gene known as APOE e4. This gene also is linked to Alzheimer's disease. But having the gene doesn't guarantee a decline in thinking and memory.
Other medical conditions and lifestyle factors have been linked to a higher risk of changes in thinking, including:
Diabetes.
Smoking.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol, especially high levels of low-density lipoprotein, known as LDL.
Obesity.
Depression.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Hearing loss and vision loss that are not treated.
Traumatic brain injury.
Lack of physical exercise.
Low education level.
Lack of mentally or socially stimulating activities.
Exposure to air pollution.
Complications for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI):
Complications of mild cognitive impairment include a higher risk — but not a certainty — of dementia. Overall, about 1% to 3% of older adults develop dementia every year. Studies suggest that around 10% to 15% of people with mild cognitive impairment go on to develop dementia each year.
Preventions for Mild cognitive impairment (MCI)
Mild cognitive impairment can't be prevented. But research has found that some lifestyle factors may lower the risk of getting it. These steps may offer some protection:
Don't drink large amounts of alcohol.
Limit exposure to air pollution.
Reduce your risk of a head injury, such as by wearing a helmet when riding a motorcycle or bicycle.
Don't smoke.
Manage health conditions such as diabetes, high blood pressure, obesity and depression.
Watch your levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and get treatment if the levels are high.
Practice good sleep habits and manage any sleep conditions.
Eat a healthy diet full of nutrients. Include fruits and vegetables and foods low in saturated fats.
Stay social with friends and family.
Get moderate to vigorous exercise most days of the week.
Wear a hearing aid if you have hearing loss.
Get regular eye exams and treat any vision changes.
Stimulate your mind with puzzles, games and memory training.
Condition name:Miscarriage
Overview of Miscarriage:
Miscarriage is the sudden loss of a pregnancy before the 20th week. About 10% to 20% of known pregnancies end in miscarriage. But the actual number is likely higher. This is because many miscarriages happen early on, before people realize they're pregnant.
The term miscarriage might sound as if something was amiss in the carrying of the pregnancy. This is rarely true. Many miscarriages happen because the unborn baby does not develop properly.
Miscarriage is a somewhat common experience — but that doesn't make it any easier. If you've lost a pregnancy, take a step toward emotional healing by learning more. Understand what can cause a miscarriage, what raises the risk and what medical care might be needed.
There are no home remedies available for Miscarriage in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Miscarriage :
Most miscarriages happen during the first trimester of pregnancy, which is about the first 13 weeks.
The symptoms can include:
Bleeding from the vagina with or without pain, including light bleeding called spotting.
Pain or cramping in the pelvic area or lower back.
Fluid or tissue passing from the vagina.
Fast heartbeat.
If you have passed tissue from your vagina, place it in a clean container. Then, bring it to your health care professional's office or the hospital. A lab can examine the tissue to check for signs of a miscarriage.
Keep in mind that most pregnant people who have vaginal spotting or bleeding in the first trimester go on to have successful pregnancies. But call your pregnancy care team right away if your bleeding is heavy or happens with cramping pain.
There are no Causes available for Miscarriage in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Miscarriage:
Various factors raise the risk of miscarriage, including:
Age. If you're older than age 35, you have a higher risk of miscarriage than a younger person. At age 35, you have about a 20% risk. At age 40, the risk is about 33% to 40%. And at age 45, it ranges from 57% to 80%.
Past miscarriages. If you've had one or more prior miscarriages before, you're at higher risk of pregnancy loss.
Long-term conditions. If you have an ongoing health condition, such as uncontrolled diabetes, you have a higher risk of miscarriage.
Uterine or cervical problems. Certain uterine conditions or weak cervical tissues, also called incompetent cervix, might raise the chances of a miscarriage.
Smoking, alcohol, caffeine and illegal drugs. People who smoke have a greater risk of miscarriage than do nonsmokers. Heavy use of caffeine or alcohol use also raises the risk. So does using illegal drugs such as cocaine.
Weight. Being underweight or being overweight has been linked with a higher risk of miscarriage.
Genetic conditions. Sometimes, one of the partners may be healthy but carry a genetic problem that raises the risk of a miscarriage. For example, one partner could have a unique chromosome that formed when the pieces of two different chromosomes attached to each other. This is called translocation. If either partner carries a chromosome translocation, passing it to an unborn child makes a miscarriage more likely.
Complications for Miscarriage:
Sometimes, pregnancy tissue that stays in the uterus after a miscarriage can lead to a uterine infection about 1 to 2 days later. The infection is called a septic miscarriage. Symptoms include:
Fever higher than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit more than two times.
Chills.
Pain in the lower stomach area.
Foul-smelling fluid called discharge from the vagina.
Vaginal bleeding.
Call your health care professional's office or your local OB triage or emergency department if you have these symptoms. The illness can get worse fast and become life-threatening without treatment.
Heavy bleeding from the vagina, called a hemorrhage, is another miscarriage complication. Along with the bleeding, a hemorrhage often happens with symptoms such as:
Fast heartbeat.
Dizziness from low blood pressure.
Tiredness or weakness due low red blood cells, also called anemia.
Get medical care at once. Some people who have a hemorrhage need blood from a donor or surgery.
Preventions for Miscarriage
Often, there's nothing you can do to prevent a miscarriage. Instead, focus on taking good care of yourself and your unborn baby:
Get regular prenatal care while you're pregnant and right after you give birth.
Stay away from miscarriage risk factors — such as smoking, drinking alcohol and illegal drug use.
Take a daily multivitamin.
If you've had one or more prior miscarriages, ask your health care professional if you should take low-dose aspirin.
Limit caffeine. Many experts recommend having no more than 200 milligrams per day while pregnant. This is the amount of caffeine in a 12-ounce cup of brewed coffee. Also, check food labels for amounts of caffeine. The effects of caffeine aren't clear for your unborn baby and higher amounts may include miscarriage or preterm birth. Ask your pregnancy care team what's right for you.
If you have a long-term health condition, work with your health care team to keep it under control.
Condition name:Mitral valve disease
Overview of Mitral valve disease:
Mitral valve disease is a problem with the valve located between the left heart chambers. The upper left heart chamber is called the left atrium. The bottom left heart chamber is called the left ventricle.
Mitral valve disease includes:
Mitral valve regurgitation. The mitral valve flaps, also called leaflets, may not close tightly. This causes blood to leak backward.
Mitral valve stenosis. The flaps of the mitral valve become thick or stiff, and they can fuse together. This narrows the valve opening, which reduces blood flow from the left atrium to the left ventricle.
Treatment for mitral valve disease depends on the severity of the condition and whether it is worsening. Sometimes, surgery is recommended to repair or replace the mitral valve.
Home Remedies for Mitral valve disease:
If you have heart valve disease, including mitral valve disease, it's important to follow a healthy lifestyle. Your health care team may tell you to make lifestyle changes, including:
Eating a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fat, and excess salt and sugar.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with a health care professional to set realistic goals for body mass index and weight.
Getting regular physical activity. Aim to include about 30 minutes of physical activity, such as brisk walks, into your daily fitness routine. Talk to your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports.
Managing stress. Find ways to help manage your stress, such as through relaxation activities, meditation, physical activity, and spending time with family and friends.
Avoiding tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask a health care professional about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Avoid or limit alcohol. Heavy alcohol use can cause irregular heartbeats. Ask your health care team about the effects of drinking alcohol.
Get regular health checkups. Establish a regular schedule with your cardiologist or primary care doctor. Tell your health care team if you have any changes in your signs or symptoms.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to a health care professional about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy
If you have mitral valve disease and are thinking about getting pregnant, talk to your health care team first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve disease tolerates this extra work depends on many things. A health care professional also can explain how to safely treat mitral valve disease during pregnancy. Frequent health checkups are needed if you have heart valve disease during pregnancy.
Symptoms for Mitral valve disease :
Some people with mitral valve disease might not have symptoms for many years, if at all.
Symptoms of mitral valve disease can include:
Fatigue.
Irregular heartbeat.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Mitral valve disease :
To understand the causes of mitral valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
The mitral valve is one of four valves in the heart that keep blood flowing in the right direction. Each valve has flaps, called leaflets, that open and close once during each heartbeat. If a valve doesn't open or close properly, blood flow through the heart to the body can be reduced.
In mitral valve regurgitation, the flaps don't close tightly. Blood flows backward when the valve is closed, making it harder for the heart to work properly.
In mitral valve stenosis, the valve opening narrows. The heart now must work harder to force blood through the smaller valve opening. If the opening in the valve becomes small enough, it can reduce blood flow between the left heart chambers.
Mitral valve disease has many causes. Some forms of mitral valve disease can be present at birth. A heart problem that you're born with is called a congenital heart defect.
Mitral valve disease also may develop later in life. This means it is acquired. For example, mitral valve stenosis is often caused by rheumatic fever. This fever is a complication of a strep infection that can affect the heart. When this happens, it's called rheumatic mitral valve disease.
Other causes of acquired mitral valve disease include:
Other heart conditions.
Infection.
Age-related changes.
Autoimmune disease, such as lupus.
Risk Factors for Mitral valve disease:
Several things can increase the risk of mitral valve disease, including:
Older age.
Certain infections that affect the heart.
Heart attack and some types of heart disease.
Use of certain drugs.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect.
Radiation to the chest.
Complications for Mitral valve disease:
Mitral valve disease can cause many complications. Severe mitral valve regurgitation, for example, causes the heart to work harder, which can cause the left ventricle to enlarge and the heart muscle to weaken.
Other complications of mitral valve disease may include:
Irregular and often rapid heartbeat, called atrial fibrillation.
High blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs, called pulmonary hypertension.
Blood clots.
Congestive heart failure.
Stroke.
There are no preventive measures available for Mitral valve disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mitral valve regurgitation
Overview of Mitral valve regurgitation:
Mitral valve regurgitation is the most common type of heart valve disease. In this condition, the valve between the left heart chambers doesn't close fully. Blood leaks backward across the valve. If the leakage is severe, not enough blood moves through the heart or to the rest of the body. Mitral valve regurgitation can make you feel very tired or short of breath.
Other names for mitral valve regurgitation are:
Mitral regurgitation (MR).
Mitral insufficiency.
Mitral incompetence.
Treatment of mitral valve regurgitation may include regular health checkups, medicines or surgery. You may not need treatment if the condition is mild.
Severe mitral valve regurgitation often requires a catheter procedure or heart surgery to repair or replace the mitral valve. Without proper treatment, severe mitral valve regurgitation can cause heart rhythm problems or heart failure.
Home Remedies for Mitral valve regurgitation:
Your health care team may suggest that you make several heart-healthy lifestyle changes. Take these steps:
Manage blood pressure. Control of high blood pressure is important if you have mitral valve regurgitation.
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Food doesn't directly affect mitral valve regurgitation. But a healthy diet can help prevent other heart disease that can weaken the heart muscle. Eat foods that are low in saturated and trans fats, sugar, salt, and refined grains, such as white bread. Eat a variety of vegetables and fruits, whole grains, and proteins, such as lean meats, fish and nuts.
Get regular exercise. How long and hard you're able to exercise can depend on whether you have mild, moderate or severe mitral valve regurgitation. Talk with your health care team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with a health care professional to set realistic goals for body mass index and weight.
Prevent infective endocarditis. If you've had mitral valve replacement, your doctor will likely recommend that you take antibiotics before dental procedures to prevent an infection called infective endocarditis.
Avoid or limit alcohol. Heavy alcohol use can cause irregular heartbeats and can make your symptoms worse. Excessive alcohol use also can cause a weakened heart muscle that leads to mitral regurgitation. Ask your health care team about the effects of drinking alcohol.
Avoid tobacco. If you smoke, quit. Ask your health care team about resources to help you quit smoking. Joining a support group may be helpful.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk with a health care professional about strategies that might help.
If you have mitral valve regurgitation and are thinking about getting pregnant, talk with your health care team first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve regurgitation tolerates this extra work depends on the degree of regurgitation and how well the heart pumps.
Symptoms for Mitral valve regurgitation :
Mitral valve regurgitation is often mild and develops slowly. Some people do not have symptoms for many years.
But sometimes, mitral valve regurgitation develops quickly. When this happens, it's called acute mitral valve regurgitation.
Fatigue is a common but nonspecific symptom of mitral valve regurgitation. Other symptoms of mitral valve regurgitation include:
Irregular heartbeat, called an arrhythmia.
Shortness of breath, especially when lying down.
Feelings of a rapid, pounding or fluttering heartbeat, called palpitations.
Swollen feet or ankles.
Causes for Mitral valve regurgitation :
To understand the causes of mitral valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
The mitral valve is one of four valves in the heart that keep blood flowing in the right direction. Each valve has flaps, also called leaflets, that open and close once during each heartbeat.
In mitral valve regurgitation, the valve flaps don't close tightly. Blood moves backward when the valve is closed. This makes it harder for the heart to work properly.
If mitral valve regurgitation is due to problems with the mitral valve, the condition is called primary mitral valve regurgitation.
If a problem or disease affecting other areas of the heart cause a leaky mitral valve, the condition is called functional or secondary mitral regurgitation.
Possible causes of mitral valve regurgitation include:
Mitral valve prolapse. In this condition, the mitral valve's flaps bulge back into the left upper heart chamber when the heart squeezes. This common heart problem can prevent the mitral valve from closing tightly and cause blood to flow backward.
Rheumatic fever. Rheumatic fever is a complication of untreated strep throat. Rheumatic fever can damage the mitral valve, leading to mitral valve regurgitation early or later in life. If rheumatic fever causes mitral valve disease, the condition is called rheumatic mitral valve disease. Rheumatic fever is rare in the United States.
Heart attack. A heart attack can damage the area of the heart muscle that supports the mitral valve. If there is a lot of heart attack damage, sudden and severe mitral valve regurgitation can occur. A leaky mitral valve caused by a heart attack is called ischemic mitral regurgitation.
Heart problem present at birth, also called a congenital heart defect. Some people are born with heart structure problems, including damaged heart valves.
Thickening of the heart muscle, called cardiomyopathy. Cardiomyopathy makes it harder for the heart to pump blood to the rest of the body. The condition can affect how the mitral valve works, causing regurgitation. Types of cardiomyopathy linked to mitral valve regurgitation include dilated cardiomyopathy and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
Damaged tissue cords. Over time, the pieces of tissue that hold the flaps of the mitral valve to the heart wall may stretch or tear. This is especially likely in people with mitral valve prolapse. A tear can cause blood to suddenly leak through the mitral valve. It may require mitral valve repair surgery. A chest injury also can cause rupture of the cords.
Inflammation of the inner lining of the heart's chambers and valves, called endocarditis. This condition is usually caused by an infection. Germs get into the bloodstream and attach to damaged areas in the heart.
Radiation therapy. Rarely, radiation therapy for cancer that is focused on the chest area can lead to mitral valve regurgitation.
Risk Factors for Mitral valve regurgitation:
Several things can increase the risk of mitral valve regurgitation, including:
Certain infections that affect the heart.
Heart attack.
Heart problems present at birth, called congenital heart defects.
History of other heart valve diseases, including mitral valve prolapse and mitral valve stenosis.
Older age.
Radiation to the chest.
Complications for Mitral valve regurgitation:
Mitral valve regurgitation complications often depend on the severity of disease. Mild mitral valve regurgitation usually does not cause any problems.
As mitral valve regurgitation gets worse, the heart must work harder to pump blood to the body. The strain on the heart can cause the left lower chamber to widen. The heart muscle may become weak.
Potential complications of severe mitral valve regurgitation include:
An irregular and often rapid heartbeat, called atrial fibrillation. Mitral valve regurgitation may trigger this common heart rhythm disorder. Atrial fibrillation has been linked to an increased risk of blood clots and stroke.
High blood pressure in the lungs, called pulmonary hypertension. Long-term untreated or improperly treated mitral regurgitation can increase pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs. As pressure rises, fluid builds up in the lungs.
Congestive heart failure. In severe mitral valve regurgitation, the heart has to work harder to pump enough blood to the body. The extra effort causes the left lower heart chamber to get bigger. Untreated, the heart muscle becomes weak. This can cause heart failure.
There are no preventive measures available for Mitral valve regurgitation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mitral valve stenosis
Overview of Mitral valve stenosis:
Mitral valve stenosis — sometimes called mitral stenosis — is a narrowing of the valve between the two left heart chambers. The narrowed valve reduces or blocks blood flow into the lower left heart chamber. The lower left heart chamber is the heart's main pumping chamber. It also is called the left ventricle.
Mitral valve stenosis can make you tired and short of breath. Other symptoms may include irregular heartbeats, dizziness, chest pain or coughing up blood. Some people don't notice symptoms.
Mitral valve stenosis can be caused by a complication of strep throat called rheumatic fever. Rheumatic fever is now rare in the United States.
Treatment for mitral valve stenosis may include medicine or mitral valve repair or replacement surgery. Some people only need regular health checkups. Treatment depends on how severe the valve disease is and whether it's getting worse. Untreated, mitral valve stenosis can lead to serious heart complications.
Home Remedies for Mitral valve stenosis:
Lifestyle changes can help improve heart health. If you have mitral valve stenosis, try these steps to keep your heart healthy:
Eat nutritious foods. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, low-fat or fat-free dairy products, poultry, fish, and whole grains. Avoid saturated and trans fat. Use less salt and sugar.
Keep a healthy weight. If you are overweight or have obesity, losing weight can help control blood pressure and lower the risk of complications. Ask your healthcare professional what weight is best for you.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Ask about exercise. How long and hard you're able to exercise may depend on the severity of mitral valve stenosis and the intensity of exercise. Talk to your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you, especially if you're considering competitive sports. People with severe mitral stenosis should not do competitive sports.
Get regular health checkups. Regular health checkups are important if you have mitral valve stenosis. You should have an echocardiogram at least every year. If you frequently feel your heart pounding or beating fast, get medical help. Fast heart rhythms that aren't treated can quickly get worse in people with mitral valve stenosis.
Manage stress. Find ways to help manage stress, such as through relaxation activities, meditation, physical activity, and spending time with family and friends.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other chronic conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare professional about strategies that might help.
Pregnancy
If you have mitral valve stenosis and want to become pregnant, talk with a healthcare professional first. Pregnancy causes the heart to work harder. How a heart with mitral valve stenosis handles the extra work depends on how narrow the valve is and how well the heart pumps. If you are pregnant and have mitral valve stenosis, your care team should closely check you during pregnancy. A healthcare professional can explain which medicines are safe to take during pregnancy. You and your healthcare professional also can discuss whether you need heart valve treatment before pregnancy.
Symptoms for Mitral valve stenosis :
Mitral valve stenosis usually worsens slowly. You may not have any symptoms, or you may have mild ones for many years. Symptoms of mitral valve stenosis can occur at any age, even during childhood.
Symptoms of mitral valve stenosis include:
Shortness of breath, especially with activity or when you lie down.
Fatigue, especially during increased activity.
Swollen feet or legs.
Pounding, skipping or otherwise irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Dizziness or fainting.
Fluid buildup in the lungs.
Chest discomfort or chest pain.
Coughing up blood.
Mitral valve stenosis symptoms may appear or get worse when the heart rate increases, such as during exercise. Anything that puts stress on the body, including pregnancy or infections, may trigger symptoms.
Causes for Mitral valve stenosis :
To understand the causes of mitral valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
The mitral valve is one of four valves in the heart that keep blood flowing in the right direction. Each valve has flaps, called leaflets, that open and close once during each heartbeat. If a valve doesn't open or close properly, less blood may flow through the heart to the body.
In mitral valve stenosis, the valve opening narrows. The heart now must work harder to force blood through the smaller valve opening. Blood flow between the upper left and lower left heart chambers may decrease.
Causes of mitral valve stenosis include:
Rheumatic fever. This complication of strep throat is the most common cause of mitral valve stenosis. When rheumatic fever damages the mitral valve, the condition is called rheumatic mitral valve disease. Symptoms may not be seen until years to decades after rheumatic fever.
Calcium deposits. As you age, calcium deposits can build up around the mitral valve. This can cause narrowing of the structures that support the mitral valve flaps. The condition is called mitral annular calcification, or MAC for short. Severe MAC can cause mitral stenosis symptoms. It's difficult to treat even with surgery. People with calcium around the mitral valve often have similar problems with the heart's aortic valve.
Radiation therapy. This is a treatment for certain types of cancer. Radiation to the chest area can sometimes cause the mitral valve to thicken and harden. The heart valve damage typically occurs 20 to 30 years after radiation therapy.
Heart condition present at birth, called a congenital heart defect. Rarely, some babies are born with a narrowed mitral valve.
Other health conditions. Lupus and other autoimmune conditions may rarely cause mitral valve stenosis.
Risk Factors for Mitral valve stenosis:
Risk factors for mitral valve stenosis include:
Untreated strep infections. A history of untreated strep throat or rheumatic fever increases the risk of mitral valve stenosis. However, rheumatic fever is rare in the United States. But it's still a problem in developing nations.
Aging. Older adults are at increased risk of calcium buildup around the mitral valve.
Radiation therapy. Radiation causes changes in the mitral valve shape and structure. Rarely, people who receive radiation therapy to the chest area for certain types of cancer may develop mitral valve stenosis.
Illicit drug use. MDMA, short for methylenedioxymethamphetamine and commonly called molly or ecstasy, increases the risk of mitral valve disease.
Use of certain medicines. Some migraine medicines have an ingredient called ergot alkaloids. Ergotamine (Ergomar) is an example. Ergot alkaloids may rarely cause heart valve scarring that leads to mitral stenosis. Older weight-loss medicines that contained fenfluramine or dexfenfluramine also are linked to heart valve disease and other heart problems. Fen-phen is an example. It's no longer sold in the United States.
Complications for Mitral valve stenosis:
Mitral valve stenosis that is not treated can lead to complications such as:
Irregular heartbeats. Irregular heartbeats are called arrhythmias. Mitral valve stenosis may cause an irregular and chaotic heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation. It's commonly known as AFib. AFib is a common complication of mitral stenosis. The risk increases with age and more-severe stenosis.
Blood clots. Irregular heartbeats linked to mitral valve stenosis can cause blood clots to form in the heart. If a blood clot from the heart travels to the brain, a stroke can occur.
High blood pressure in the lung arteries. The medical name for this condition is pulmonary hypertension. It can happen if a narrowed mitral valve slows or blocks blood flow. Decreased blood flow raises pressure in the lung arteries. The heart must work harder to pump blood through the lungs.
Right-sided heart failure. Changes in blood flow and high pressure in the lung arteries put a strain on the heart. The heart must work harder to pump blood to the chambers on the right side of the heart. The extra effort eventually causes the heart muscle to become weak and fail.
Preventions for Mitral valve stenosis
Rheumatic fever is the most common cause of mitral valve stenosis. So the best way to prevent mitral valve stenosis is to prevent rheumatic fever. You can do this by making sure you and your children see a healthcare professional for sore throats. Untreated strep throat infections can develop into rheumatic fever. Strep throat is usually easily treated with antibiotics.
Condition name:Mittelschmerz
Overview of Mittelschmerz:
Mittelschmerz is one-sided, lower abdominal pain associated with ovulation. German for "middle pain," mittelschmerz occurs midway through a menstrual cycle — about 14 days before your next menstrual period.
In most cases, mittelschmerz doesn't require medical attention. For minor mittelschmerz discomfort, over-the-counter pain relievers and home remedies are often effective. If your mittelschmerz pain is troublesome, your doctor may prescribe an oral contraceptive to stop ovulation and prevent midcycle pain.
Home Remedies for Mittelschmerz:
To ease mittelschmerz discomfort that lasts more than a few minutes, try some home remedies. Because heat increases blood flow, relaxes tense muscles and eases cramping, you might want to:
Soak in a hot bath
Use a heating pad where the pain is
Symptoms for Mittelschmerz :
Mittelschmerz pain usually lasts a few minutes to a few hours, but it may continue for as long as a day or two. Pain from mittelschmerz may be:
On one side of your lower abdomen
Dull and achy, similar to menstrual cramps
Sharp and sudden
Accompanied by slight vaginal bleeding or discharge
Rarely, severe
Mittelschmerz pain occurs on the side of the ovary that's releasing an egg (ovulating). The pain may switch sides every other month, or you may feel pain on the same side for several months.
Keep track of your menstrual cycle for several months and note when you feel lower abdominal pain. If it occurs midcycle and goes away without treatment, it's most likely mittelschmerz.
Causes for Mittelschmerz :
Mittelschmerz occurs during ovulation, when the follicle ruptures and releases its egg. Some women have mittelschmerz every month; others have it only occasionally.
The exact cause of mittelschmerz is unknown, but possible reasons for the pain include these:
Just before an egg is released with ovulation, follicle growth stretches the surface of your ovary, causing pain.
Blood or fluid released from the ruptured follicle irritates the lining of your abdomen (peritoneum), leading to pain.
Pain at any other point in your menstrual cycle isn't mittelschmerz. It may be normal menstrual cramping (dysmenorrhea) if it occurs during your period, or it may be from other abdominal or pelvic problems. If you have severe pain, see your doctor.
Risk Factors for Mittelschmerz:
Mittelschmerz has no clear risk factors. But it may be more likely to happen between the ages of 15 and 25.
Complications for Mittelschmerz:
Mittelschmerz doesn't lead to other health conditions, also called complications. The pain goes away on its own, or with medicine or home remedies.
Preventions for Mittelschmerz
Mittelschmerz can't be prevented. It's linked with natural changes in the body that happen during the menstrual cycle.
Condition name:Molar pregnancy
Overview of Molar pregnancy:
A molar pregnancy is a rare complication of pregnancy. It involves unusual growth of cells called trophoblasts. These cells typically become the organ that feeds a growing fetus. That organ also is known as the placenta.
There are two types of molar pregnancy — complete molar pregnancy and partial molar pregnancy. In a complete molar pregnancy, the placental tissue swells and appears to form fluid-filled cysts. There is no fetus.
In a partial molar pregnancy, the placenta might have both regular and irregular tissue. There may be a fetus, but the fetus can't survive. The fetus usually is miscarried early in the pregnancy.
A molar pregnancy can have serious complications, including a rare form of cancer. A molar pregnancy requires early treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Molar pregnancy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Molar pregnancy :
A molar pregnancy may seem like a regular pregnancy at first. But most molar pregnancies cause symptoms that can include:
Dark brown to bright red bleeding from the vagina during the first three months
Severe nausea and vomiting
Sometimes grapelike cysts that pass from the vagina
Pelvic pressure or pain
Because of improved ways of detecting a molar pregnancy, most are found in the first trimester. If it is not found in the first three months, symptoms of a molar pregnancy might include:
A uterus growing quickly and being too large early in the pregnancy
Preeclampsia — a condition that causes high blood pressure and protein in the urine — before 20 weeks of pregnancy
Ovarian cysts
Overactive thyroid, also known as hyperthyroidism
Causes for Molar pregnancy :
An egg fertilized atypically causes a molar pregnancy. Human cells usually have 23 pairs of chromosomes. In a typical fertilization, one chromosome in each pair comes from the father, the other from the mother.
In a complete molar pregnancy, one or two sperm fertilize an egg. The chromosomes from the mother's egg are missing or don't work. The father's chromosomes are copied. There's none from the mother.
In a partial or incomplete molar pregnancy, the mother's chromosomes are present, but the father supplies two sets of chromosomes. The embryo then has 69 chromosomes instead of 46. This most often occurs when two sperm fertilize an egg, resulting in an extra copy of the father's genes.
Risk Factors for Molar pregnancy:
Factors that can contribute to a molar pregnancy include:
Earlier molar pregnancy. If you've had one molar pregnancy, you're more likely to have another. A repeat molar pregnancy happens, on average, in 1 out of every 100 people.
Age of the mother. A molar pregnancy is more likely in people older than age 43 or younger than age 15.
Complications for Molar pregnancy:
After removing a molar pregnancy, molar tissue might remain and continue to grow. This is called persistent gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN). GTN happens more often in complete molar pregnancies than it does in partial molar pregnancies.
One sign of persistent GTN is a high level of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) — a pregnancy hormone — after the molar pregnancy has been removed. In some cases, the mole that causes the molar pregnancy goes deep into the middle layer of the uterine wall. This causes bleeding from the vagina.
Persistent GTN is usually treated with chemotherapy. Another treatment possibility is removal of the uterus, also known as hysterectomy.
Rarely, a cancerous form of GTN known as choriocarcinoma develops and spreads to other organs. Choriocarcinoma is usually successfully treated with chemotherapy. A complete molar pregnancy is more likely to have this complication than is a partial molar pregnancy.
Preventions for Molar pregnancy
If you've had a molar pregnancy, talk to your pregnancy care provider before trying to get pregnant again. You might want to wait six months to one year. The risk of having another molar pregnancy is low, but it's higher once you've had a molar pregnancy.
During future pregnancies, a care provider may do early ultrasounds to check your condition and make sure the baby is developing.
Condition name:Moles
Overview of Moles:
Moles, also known as nevi, are a common type of skin growth. They often appear as small, dark brown spots that are caused by clusters of pigment-forming cells called melanocytes. Most people have 10 to 45 moles that appear during childhood and the teenage years. How these moles look may change over time. They also may fade over time.
Most moles are harmless. Rarely, they become cancerous. Being aware of changes in your moles and other pigmented patches is important to finding skin cancer, especially malignant melanoma.
There are no home remedies available for Moles in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Moles :
The typical mole is a small brown spot. But moles come in different colors, shapes and sizes:
Color and texture. Moles can be brown, tan, black, blue, red or pink. They can be smooth, wrinkled, flat or raised. They may have hair growing from them.
Shape. Most moles are oval or round.
Size. Moles are typically less than 1/4 inch (about 6 mm) in diameter — the size of a pencil eraser. Those present at birth, known as congenital nevi, can be bigger and cover part of the face, trunk or a limb.
Moles can grow anywhere on your body, including your scalp and armpits, as well as under your nails and between your fingers and toes. Most people have 10 to 45 moles. Many of these moles occur by age 40. Moles may change or fade away over time. They may become darker and larger with hormonal changes that occur during the teenage years and while pregnant.
Clusters of brown spots around the eyes, cheeks and nose are dermatoses papulosa nigra — a type of seborrheic keratosis that is noncancerous and appears as waxy brown, black or tan growths. They aren't clusters of pigment-forming cells, known as nevi. Dermatoses papulosa nigra are more common among Black women. These lesions don't carry a risk of melanoma, but they can be treated as a cosmetic concern.
Causes for Moles :
Moles are caused when cells in the skin called melanocytes grow in clusters. Melanocytes generally are distributed throughout the skin. They produce melanin, the natural pigment that gives skin its color.
There are no Risk Factors available for Moles in the knowledge baseComplications for Moles:
Melanoma is the main complication of moles. Some people have an above-average risk of their moles becoming cancerous and leading to melanoma. Factors that raise melanoma risk include:
Being born with large moles. These type of moles are called congenital nevi. They are subclassified based on their estimated adult size. Large and giant congenital nevi that are more than 20 centimeters in diameter are at higher risk of developing melanoma.
Having unusual moles. Moles that are large with an irregular border are known as atypical nevi, also known as dysplastic nevi. They tend to run in families.
Having many moles. Having more than 50 moles suggests a greater risk of melanoma and possibly breast cancer.
Having a personal or family history of melanoma. If you've had melanoma before, there is a higher risk of getting melanoma again. Also, some types of atypical nevi lead to a genetic form of melanoma.
Using tanning lamps or beds. Tanning lamps and beds release UV rays and can raise your risk of skin cancer.
Preventions for Moles
The following measures can help limit the growth of moles and the main complication of moles: melanoma.
Condition name:Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS)
Overview of Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS):
Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) is a condition in which an atypical protein is found in the blood. The protein is called monoclonal protein or M protein.
This protein is made in the soft, blood-producing tissue in the center of bones. This blood-producing tissue is bone marrow. Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance occurs most often in older men.
MGUS usually causes no problems. But sometimes it can lead to more-serious diseases. These include some forms of blood cancer.
People who have high amounts of this protein in the blood need regular checkups. That's so they can get earlier treatment if the condition gets worse. If it doesn't get worse, MGUS doesn't need treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) :
People with monoclonal gammopathy often don't have symptoms. Some people have a rash or nerve problems, such as numbness or tingling. A blood test for another condition might find MGUS by chance.
Causes for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) :
Experts don't know what causes MGUS. Changes in genes and being around certain chemicals, such as those used to kill pests, appear to play a role.
Risk Factors for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS):
Factors that increase your risk of developing MGUS include:
Age. The average age at diagnosis is 70 years.
Race. Africans and Black Americans are more likely to get MGUS than white people are.
Sex. MGUS is more common in men.
Family history. Having family members with MGUS might increase the risk.
Complications for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS):
Each year, about 1% of people with MGUS get certain types of blood cancers or other serious diseases, such as:
Multiple myeloma.
Light chain amyloidosis.
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia.
Lymphoma.
Other issues linked to MGUS include broken bones, blood clots, kidney problems, and damage to nerves outside of the brain and spinal cord, also known as peripheral neuropathy.
There are no preventive measures available for Monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mood disorders
Overview of Mood disorders:
Mood disorders, such as depression and bipolar disorder, affect people emotionally. If you have depression, you may constantly feel sad. You also may be anxious. If you have bipolar disorder, you'll likely have extreme mood swings. Your feelings may range from being very sad, empty or cranky to being very happy — going back and forth between each mood. Mood disorders are more common in women.
Having a mood disorder may raise your risk of suicide. This risk is higher if the mood disorder is serious and you also have problems with alcohol or drugs.
If you're thinking about suicide, contact a hotline for help. In the U.S., call or text 988 to reach the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline. It's available 24 hours a day, every day. Or use the Lifeline Chat. Services are free and private. The Suicide & Crisis Lifeline in the U.S. has a Spanish-language phone line at 1-888-628-9454 (toll-free).
There are no home remedies available for Mood disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Mood disorders :
Symptoms depend on the type of mood disorder.
Depressive disorders are common and often long-lasting. They can:
Cause you to feel sad, empty, anxious and cranky.
Affect your ability to focus and function.
Cause loss of pleasure in most or all activities.
Affect your energy level and quality of life.
Make you feel worthless or guilty.
Affect how much you eat and sleep.
Raise thoughts about suicide.
Bipolar disorders may feature:
Moods that go back and forth between emotional highs, called mania or hypomania, and lows, called depression.
Feeling on top of the world, superior to others, or that you're so strong that nothing can harm or change you.
Racing thoughts.
Increased energy.
Disrupted sleep, usually a decreased need for sleep, but a continued high energy level.
Impulsive behaviors.
You also could be easily distracted and more likely to think about suicide or plan for suicide, depending on the seriousness of symptoms.
Other types of mood disorders may include other symptoms.
Causes for Mood disorders :
Mood disorders are caused by traits passed down to you, as well as environmental factors and life events. Environmental factors can include, for example, childhood experiences and stressful life events. Some prescription drugs, such as corticosteroids and medicines for Parkinson's disease, and street drugs also can cause mood disorders.
Risk Factors for Mood disorders:
Risk factors include life experiences and stressful life events that increase the risk of certain types of mood disorders.
Mood disorders may occur along with neurological disorders. These are conditions that affect the brain and the nervous system. For example, depression is common among people with multiple sclerosis, dementia, traumatic brain injury, stroke and epilepsy. Depression also often occurs in people who have movements disorders like Parkinson's disease and those who have other long-term health conditions.
There are no Complications available for Mood disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Mood disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Morning sickness
Overview of Morning sickness:
Morning sickness is feeling like throwing up, also called nausea, and throwing up, also called vomiting, that occurs during pregnancy. Despite its name, morning sickness can strike at any time of the day or night.
Many people have morning sickness, especially during the first three months of pregnancy. But some people have morning sickness all through pregnancy. Home remedies, such as snacking during the day and sipping ginger ale or taking medicine you can buy without a prescription, might help relieve nausea.
Rarely, morning sickness is so bad that it turns into hyperemesis gravidarum. This is when the nausea and vomiting cause serious fluid loss or loss of more than 5% of pre-pregnancy body weight. Hyperemesis gravidarum might require going to a hospital for treatment.
Home Remedies for Morning sickness:
To help relieve morning sickness:
Choose foods carefully. Select foods that are high in protein, low in fat and easy to digest. Avoid greasy, spicy and fatty foods. Bland foods, such as bananas, rice, applesauce and toast may be easy to digest. Salty foods might be helpful, as are foods that contain ginger â€” such as ginger lollipops.
Snack often. Before getting out of bed in the morning, eat a few soda crackers or a piece of dry toast. Nibble throughout the day, rather than eating three larger meals. You don't want to get too full, but an empty stomach can also make nausea worse.
Drink plenty of fluids. Sip water, real ginger ale or ginger tea. Try to drink 6 to 8 cups of fluids without caffeine each day.
Pay attention to nausea triggers. Avoid foods or smells that seem to make your nausea worse.
Take care with prenatal vitamins. If you feel queasy after taking prenatal vitamins, take the vitamins with a snack or just before bed. Or try chewable or gummy versions of the vitamins. If these steps don't help, ask your health care provider about other ways you can get the iron and vitamins you need during pregnancy.
Rinse your mouth after vomiting. The acid from your stomach can damage the enamel on your teeth. If you can, rinse your mouth with a cup of water mixed with a teaspoon of baking soda. This will help protect your teeth.
Symptoms for Morning sickness :
Nausea, with or without vomiting, is common in pregnancy. Morning sickness is often brought on by smelling certain odors or eating certain foods.
Morning sickness is most common during the first three months of pregnancy. It typically starts before nine weeks. Symptoms usually improve by the middle or end of the second three months of pregnancy.
Causes for Morning sickness :
The cause of morning sickness is not known. Hormone changes might play a role. Rarely, a medical condition not related to pregnancy, such as thyroid or gallbladder disease, can cause serious nausea or vomiting.
Risk Factors for Morning sickness:
Morning sickness can affect anyone who's pregnant, but it might be more likely for those who:
Had nausea or vomiting from other causes before becoming pregnant, such as motion sickness or migraines
Had morning sickness during a prior pregnancy
Are pregnant with twins or other multiples
Hyperemesis gravidarum might be more likely for those who:
Are pregnant with a girl
Have a family history of hyperemesis gravidarum
Have had hyperemesis gravidarum during an earlier pregnancy
Complications for Morning sickness:
Mild nausea and vomiting of pregnancy usually won't cause harm.
If left untreated, severe nausea and vomiting can cause a lack of bodily fluids, a condition known as dehydration. It also may lead to an imbalance in electrolytes — the salts in blood that control the balance of fluids in the body. Severe nausea and vomiting may result in less urine output. Research is mixed on whether hyperemesis gravidarum causes poor weight gain for the baby during pregnancy.
Preventions for Morning sickness
There's no sure way to prevent morning sickness. However, taking a daily vitamin supplement before and during pregnancy might help.
Condition name:Morphea
Overview of Morphea:
Morphea (mor-FEE-uh) is a rare condition that causes painless, discolored patches on your skin.
Typically, the skin changes appear on the belly, chest or back. But they might also appear on your face, arms and legs. Over time the patches may become firm, dry and smooth. Morphea tends to affect only the outer layers of your skin. But some forms of the condition also affect deeper tissues and may restrict movement in the joints.
Morphea usually improves on its own over time, though recurrences are common. In the meantime, medications and therapies are available to help treat the skin discoloration and other effects.
Home Remedies for Morphea:
Because morphea dries the affected skin, moisturizers may help soften and improve the feel of your skin. It's a good idea to avoid long, hot showers or baths, as these can dry your skin.
Symptoms for Morphea :
Signs and symptoms of morphea vary depending on the type and stage of the condition. They include:
Reddish or purplish oval patches of skin, often on the belly, chest or back
Patches that gradually develop a lighter or whitish center
Linear patches, especially on the arms or legs and possibly the forehead or scalp
A gradual change in the affected skin, which becomes firm, thickened, dry and shiny
Morphea affects the skin and underlying tissue and sometimes bone. The condition generally lasts several years and then improves or at times disappears by itself. It may leave scars or areas of darkened or discolored skin. It is possible for morphea to recur.
Causes for Morphea :
The cause of morphea is unknown. It may be caused by an unusual reaction of your immune system. In people at increased risk of morphea, it could be triggered by injury to the affected area, medications, chemical toxins, an infection or radiation therapy.
The condition isn't contagious.
Risk Factors for Morphea:
Certain factors may affect your risk of developing morphea, including:
Being white and female. Morphea is most common in white females.
Age. The condition can affect people at any age. It usually appears between the ages of 2 and 14 or in the mid-40s.
A family history of morphea. This condition can run in families. People with morphea are more likely to have a family history of morphea and other autoimmune diseases.
Complications for Morphea:
Morphea can cause a number of complications, including:
Self-esteem issues. Morphea can have a negative effect on your self-esteem and body image, particularly if discolored patches of skin appear on your arms, legs or face.
Movement problems. Morphea that affects the arms or legs can impair joint mobility.
Widespread areas of hardened, discolored skin. Numerous new patches of hardened, discolored skin may seem to join together, a condition known as generalized morphea.
Loss of hair and sweat glands. Over time, you may lose hair and sweat glands in the affected area.
Eye damage. Children with head and neck morphea may experience unnoticeable but permanent eye damage.
There are no preventive measures available for Morphea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Morton's neuroma
Overview of Morton's neuroma:
Morton's neuroma is a painful condition that affects the ball of your foot, most commonly the area between your third and fourth toes. Morton's neuroma may feel as if you are standing on a pebble in your shoe or on a fold in your sock.
Morton's neuroma involves a thickening of the tissue around one of the nerves leading to your toes. This can cause a sharp, burning pain in the ball of your foot. You may have stinging, burning or numbness in the affected toes.
High-heeled or tight shoes have been linked to the development of Morton's neuroma. Many people experience relief by switching to lower heeled shoes with wider toe boxes. Sometimes corticosteroid injections or surgery may be necessary.
Home Remedies for Morton's neuroma:
To help relieve the pain associated with Morton's neuroma and allow the nerve to heal, consider the following self-care tips:
Take anti-inflammatory medications. Over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), can reduce swelling and relieve pain.
Try ice massage. Regular ice massage may help reduce pain. Freeze a water-filled paper cup or plastic foam cup and roll the ice over the painful site.
Change your footwear. Avoid high heels or tight shoes. Choose shoes with a broad toe box and extra depth.
Take a break. For a few weeks, reduce activities such as jogging, aerobic exercise or dancing that subject your feet to high impact.
Symptoms for Morton's neuroma :
Typically, there's no outward sign of this condition, such as a lump. Instead, you may experience the following symptoms:
A feeling as if you're standing on a pebble in your shoe
A burning pain in the ball of your foot that may radiate into your toes
Tingling or numbness in your toes
In addition to these symptoms, you may find that removing your shoe and rubbing your foot often helps to relieve the pain.
Causes for Morton's neuroma :
Morton's neuroma seems to occur in response to irritation, pressure or injury to one of the nerves that lead to your toes.
Risk Factors for Morton's neuroma:
Factors that appear to contribute to Morton's neuroma include:
High heels. Wearing high-heeled shoes or shoes that are tight or ill fitting can place extra pressure on your toes and the ball of your foot.
Certain sports. Participating in high-impact athletic activities such as jogging or running may subject your feet to repetitive trauma. Sports that feature tight shoes, such as snow skiing or rock climbing, can put pressure on your toes.
Foot deformities. People who have bunions, hammertoes, high arches or flatfeet are at higher risk of developing Morton's neuroma.
There are no Complications available for Morton's neuroma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Morton's neuroma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Mosquito bites
Overview of Mosquito bites:
Mosquito bites are the itchy bumps that form on the skin after mosquitoes feed on your blood. The bumps usually go away without treatment in a few days. Some mosquito bites may get very swollen, sore and inflamed. This type of reaction, sometimes called skeeter syndrome, is most common in children.
Mosquito bites can cause severe illnesses if the insects carry certain viruses or parasites. Infected mosquitoes can spread West Nile virus, Zika virus, and the viruses that cause malaria, yellow fever and some types of brain infection.
Home Remedies for Mosquito bites:
Most mosquito bites stop itching and heal on their own in a few days. These self-care tips may make you more comfortable.
Applying a lotion, cream or paste. Avoid scratching itchy bites. It may help to apply calamine lotion or a nonprescription antihistamine cream or corticosteroid cream. Or try dabbing the bite with a paste made of baking soda and water. Reapply the cream or the paste three times a day until the itch is gone.
Rubbing with an ice cube. Try soothing an itchy bite by rubbing it with an ice cube for 30 seconds.
Applying pressure. Another way to soothe an itchy bite is by applying pressure for 10 seconds.
Taking an oral antihistamine. For stronger reactions, try taking a nonprescription antihistamine that doesn't cause sleepiness, such as cetirizine (Children's Zyrtec Allergy, Zyrtec Allergy, others) or loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Easing the itch of mosquito bites
Symptoms for Mosquito bites :
Mosquito bites often happen on parts of the body that aren't covered by clothing. Symptoms include:
An itchy, inflamed bump that forms a few minutes after a bite
A painful spot that looks like a hive and forms within 24 hours after a bite
Small blisters
A severe reaction to mosquito bites can cause:
A large, swollen, inflamed area
A hive-like rash
Swelling around the eyes
Children are more likely to have a severe reaction than are adults.
Causes for Mosquito bites :
Mosquito bites are caused by female mosquitoes feeding on your blood. As a biting mosquito fills itself with blood, it injects saliva into your skin. The saliva triggers an immune system reaction that results in the classic itching and bump.
Mosquitoes are attracted to smells, such as from sweat, floral scents and exhaled carbon dioxide.
There are no Risk Factors available for Mosquito bites in the knowledge baseComplications for Mosquito bites:
Scratching bites can lead to infection.
Mosquitoes can carry the viruses that cause certain diseases, such as West Nile virus and the viruses that cause malaria, yellow fever and dengue fever. The mosquito gets a virus or parasite by biting an infected person or animal. Then when it's biting you, the mosquito can transfer that virus or parasite to you through its saliva. West Nile, dengue fever and some types of encephalitis occur in the United States. Other diseases, such as malaria and yellow fever, are far more common in tropical areas of the world.
Preventions for Mosquito bites
Mosquitos bite during both day and night, and they can live indoors. You can take several steps to protect yourself from mosquito bites.
Condition name:Mouth cancer
Overview of Mouth cancer:
Mouth cancer refers to cancer that develops in any of the parts that make up the mouth (oral cavity). Mouth cancer can occur on the:
Lips
Gums
Tongue
Inner lining of the cheeks
Roof of the mouth
Floor of the mouth (under the tongue)
Cancer that occurs on the inside of the mouth is sometimes called oral cancer or oral cavity cancer.
Mouth cancer is one of several types of cancers grouped in a category called head and neck cancers. Mouth cancer and other head and neck cancers are often treated similarly.
Home Remedies for Mouth cancer:
Quit using tobacco
Mouth cancers are closely linked to tobacco use, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, among others. Not everyone who is diagnosed with mouth cancer uses tobacco. But if you do, now is the time to stop because:
Tobacco use makes treatment less effective.
Tobacco use makes it harder for your body to heal after surgery.
Tobacco use increases your risk of a cancer recurrence and of getting another cancer in the future.
Quitting smoking or chewing can be very difficult. And it's that much harder when you're trying to cope with a stressful situation, such as a cancer diagnosis and treatment. Your doctor can discuss all of your options, including medications, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Quit drinking alcohol
Alcohol, particularly when combined with tobacco use, greatly increases the risk of mouth cancer. If you drink alcohol, stop drinking all types of alcohol. This may help reduce your risk of a second cancer.
Symptoms for Mouth cancer :
Signs and symptoms of mouth cancer may include:
A lip or mouth sore that doesn't heal
A white or reddish patch on the inside of your mouth
Loose teeth
A growth or lump inside your mouth
Mouth pain
Ear pain
Difficult or painful swallowing
Causes for Mouth cancer :
Mouth cancers form when cells on the lips or in the mouth develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The mutations changes tell the cells to continue growing and dividing when healthy cells would die. The accumulating abnormal mouth cancer cells can form a tumor. With time they may spread inside the mouth and on to other areas of the head and neck or other parts of the body.
Mouth cancers most commonly begin in the flat, thin cells (squamous cells) that line your lips and the inside of your mouth. Most oral cancers are squamous cell carcinomas.
It's not clear what causes the mutations in squamous cells that lead to mouth cancer. But doctors have identified factors that may increase the risk of mouth cancer.
Risk Factors for Mouth cancer:
Factors that can increase your risk of mouth cancer include:
Tobacco use of any kind, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, among others
Heavy alcohol use
Excessive sun exposure to your lips
A sexually transmitted virus called human papillomavirus (HPV)
A weakened immune system
There are no Complications available for Mouth cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Mouth cancer
There's no proven way to prevent mouth cancer. However, you can reduce your risk of mouth cancer if you:
Stop using tobacco or don't start. If you use tobacco, stop. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. Using tobacco, whether smoked or chewed, exposes the cells in your mouth to dangerous cancer-causing chemicals.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. Chronic excessive alcohol use can irritate the cells in your mouth, making them vulnerable to mouth cancer. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women of all ages and men older than age 65, and up to two drinks a day for men age 65 and younger.
Avoid excessive sun exposure to your lips. Protect the skin on your lips from the sun by staying in the shade when possible. Wear a broad-brimmed hat that effectively shades your entire face, including your mouth. Apply a sunscreen lip product as part of your routine sun protection regimen.
See your dentist regularly. As part of a routine dental exam, ask your dentist to inspect your entire mouth for abnormal areas that may indicate mouth cancer or precancerous changes.
Condition name:Movement disorders
Overview of Movement disorders:
Movement disorders are a group of nervous system conditions that affect movement. They can cause either increased movements or reduced or slow movements. These movements may be under the person's control, known as voluntary. Or the movements may not be under the person's control, known as involuntary.
There are many types of movement disorders that cause different symptoms. For example, dystonia causes muscle contractions that lead to twisting of the body. Another movement disorder called chorea causes brief periods of quick involuntary movements that happen over and over. Parkinsonism causes slowness of movement with stiffness, tremors or loss of balance.
Treatments may be available to help manage the symptoms of movement disorders. Depending on the type of movement disorder, medicines, therapies or surgeries may be available. If a condition causes the movement disorder, treating the condition may help improve symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Movement disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Movement disorders :
Symptoms of movement disorders vary depending on the type of the disorder. Common types of movement disorders and their symptoms include:
Ataxia. Ataxia affects the part of the brain that controls coordinated movement. Ataxia may cause clumsy movements of the arms and legs, and a loss of balance. Ataxia also can change a person's speech and cause other symptoms. There are many causes of ataxia, including genetic and degenerative conditions. Ataxia also may be caused by an infection or another treatable condition.
Chorea. Chorea causes brief, irregular, somewhat rapid, involuntary movements that happen over and over. The movements typically involve the face, mouth, trunk, arm and leg. Chorea can look like exaggerated fidgeting.
The most common genetic chorea is Huntington's disease. This disease is passed down from a parent and gets worse over time. It can be confirmed with genetic testing. Huntington's disease has three types of symptoms. They include movements that can't be controlled, trouble with thinking and mental health conditions.
Dystonia. This condition involves involuntary muscle contractions that cause twisting, irregular postures, or movements that occur again and again. Dystonia may affect the entire body or one part of the body.
The most common type of dystonia in adults is cervical dystonia. In cervical dystonia, the neck muscles contract involuntarily. This causes the head to pull to one side or to tilt forward or backward. The head also may shake, known as a tremor.
Functional movement disorder. This condition may look like any of the movement disorders. But it's not caused by a disease of the nervous system, also known as a neurological disease. Functional movement disorders are treatable.
Multiple system atrophy. This rare condition affects many brain systems and gets worse over time. Multiple system atrophy causes a movement disorder, such as ataxia or parkinsonism. It also can cause low blood pressure, bladder symptoms and acting out dreams.
Myoclonus. Myoclonus are very quick jerks of a muscle.
Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease causes tremors, muscle stiffness, slow or decreased movement, or loss of balance. It also can cause symptoms not related to movement. These symptoms include a reduced sense of smell, constipation, acting out dreams and a decline in thinking skills. Parkinson's disease slowly gets worse over time.
Parkinsonism. Parkinsonism is a general term for slowness of movement along with stiffness, tremors or loss of balance. There are many different causes. Parkinson's disease and certain dopamine blocking medicines are the most common causes. Other causes include degenerative disorders such as multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. Stroke or repeated head trauma also can cause parkinsonism.
Progressive supranuclear palsy. This is a rare nervous system condition that causes problems with walking, balance and eye movements. It may resemble Parkinson's disease but is a distinct condition.
Restless legs syndrome. This movement disorder causes aching, itching, or creeping feelings in the legs while relaxing or lying down. The feeling often goes away with movement.
Tardive dyskinesia. This neurological condition is caused by long-term use of certain medicines used to treat mental health conditions, called neuroleptic medicines. It also can be caused by a common gastrointestinal medicine called metoclopramide (Reglan, Gimoti). Tardive dyskinesia causes involuntary movements that occur over and over. Symptoms include grimacing, eye blinking and other movements.
Tourette syndrome. This is a neurological condition associated with repetitive movements and vocal sounds called tics. Tics are voluntary movements, but they're caused by an involuntary urge to make the movements. Tourette syndrome starts between childhood and teenage years.
Tremor. This movement disorder causes rhythmic shaking of parts of the body, such as the hands, head or other body parts. The most common type is essential tremor.
Causes for Movement disorders :
A wide variety of factors can cause movement disorders, including:
Genetics. Some types of movement disorders can be caused by an altered gene. The altered gene is passed down from a parent to a child. This is called an inherited condition. Huntington's disease and Wilson's disease are two movement disorders that can be inherited.
Medicines. Medicines such as anti-seizure and anti-psychotic medicines can lead to movement disorders.
Illegal drugs or large amounts of alcohol. Illegal drugs such as cocaine can cause movement disorders such as chorea. Drinking large amounts of alcohol can cause chorea or ataxia.
Not getting enough of certain vitamins. Having low levels of certain vitamins in the body, known as a vitamin deficiency, can cause movement disorders. A deficiency in vitamin B-1, vitamin B-12 or vitamin E can lead to ataxia.
Medical conditions. Thyroid conditions, multiple sclerosis, stroke, viral encephalitis and several others can cause movement disorders. Brain tumors also can lead to movement disorders.
Head injury. Head trauma from an injury can lead to movement disorders.
For most people with a movement disorders, there is no known cause. When healthcare professionals haven't found the exact cause, it's called idiopathic.
Risk Factors for Movement disorders:
Your risk of some movement disorders is higher if you have a parent with the condition. Movement disorders that can be passed down through families include essential tremor, Huntington's disease, Wilson's disease and Tourette syndrome.
Other factors that may increase the risk of having a movement disorder include having certain medical conditions or taking certain medicines. Drinking large amount of alcohol, doing illegal drugs such as cocaine or not having enough of certain vitamins in the body also can increase risk.
There are no Complications available for Movement disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Movement disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Moyamoya disease
Overview of Moyamoya disease:
Moyamoya disease is a rare blood vessel disorder in which the carotid artery in the skull becomes blocked or narrowed. The carotid artery is a major artery that brings blood to the brain. When it's blocked, blood flow to the brain is reduced. Tiny blood vessels then develop at the base of the brain in an attempt to supply the brain with blood.
The condition may cause a ministroke, known as a transient ischemic attack, or a stroke. It also can cause bleeding in the brain. Moyamoya disease can affect how well the brain functions and can cause cognitive and developmental delays or disability.
Moyamoya disease most commonly affects children. However, adults may have the condition as well. Moyamoya disease is found all over the world. But it's more common in East Asian countries, especially Korea, Japan and China. This may be due to certain genetic factors in those populations.
There are no home remedies available for Moyamoya disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Moyamoya disease :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Moyamoya disease in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Moyamoya disease:
Though the cause of moyamoya disease is unknown, certain factors may increase your risk of having the condition. They include:
Asian heritage. Although moyamoya disease is found all over the world, it's more common in East Asian countries, especially Korea, Japan and China. This may be due to certain genetic factors in those populations. This same higher prevalence has been documented among Asians living in Western countries.
Family history of moyamoya disease. If you have a family member with moyamoya disease, your risk of having the condition is 30 to 40 times higher than that of the general population. This strongly suggests a genetic component.
Medical conditions. Moyamoya syndrome sometimes occurs in association with other disorders, including neurofibromatosis type 1, sickle cell disease and Down syndrome, among many others.
Being female. Females have a slightly higher incidence of moyamoya disease.
Being young. Though adults can have moyamoya disease, children younger than 15 years old are most commonly affected.
Complications for Moyamoya disease:
Most complications from moyamoya disease are associated with the effects of strokes. They include seizures, paralysis and vision problems. Other complications include speech problems, movement disorders and developmental delays. Moyamoya disease can cause serious and permanent damage to the brain.
There are no preventive measures available for Moyamoya disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1)
Overview of Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1):
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) is a rare condition. It mainly causes tumors in the glands that make and release hormones. These are called the endocrine glands. The condition also can cause tumors in the small intestine and stomach. Another name for MEN 1 is Wermer's syndrome.
The endocrine gland tumors that form due to MEN 1 usually are not cancer. Most often, the tumors grow on the parathyroid glands, the pancreas and the pituitary gland. Some glands affected by MEN 1 also may release too many hormones. That can lead to other health concerns.
The extra hormones of MEN 1 can cause many symptoms. These symptoms may include tiredness, bone pain, broken bones, kidney stones, and ulcers in the stomach or intestines.
MEN 1 can't be cured. But regular testing can detect health concerns, and healthcare professionals can provide treatment as needed.
MEN 1 is an inherited condition. That means people who have a genetic change that causes MEN 1 can pass it on to their children.
There are no home remedies available for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) :
Symptoms of multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) can include the following:
Tiredness.
Bone pain or broken bones.
Kidney stones.
Ulcers in the stomach or intestines.
Stomach pain.
Muscle weakness.
Depression.
Acid reflux.
Frequent diarrhea.
Symptoms are caused by the release of too many hormones in the body.
Causes for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) :
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) is caused by a change in the MEN1 gene. That gene controls how the body makes a protein called menin. Menin helps to keep cells in the body from growing and dividing too quickly.
Many different changes in the MEN1 gene can cause the MEN 1 condition to develop. People who have one of those genetic changes can pass it on to their children. Many people with a change in the MEN1 gene inherit it from a parent. But some people are the first in their family to have a new MEN1 gene change that doesn't come from a parent.
Risk Factors for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1):
Risk factors for multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) include the following:
Children with a parent who has a genetic change in the MEN1 gene are at risk of the MEN 1 condition. That's because these children have a 50% chance of having the same genetic change that causes MEN 1.
Parents and siblings of people who have a change in the MEN1 gene also are at risk. That's because they may have the same genetic change, even if they haven't had any symptoms of MEN 1.
There are no Complications available for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2)
Overview of Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2):
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2, also called MEN 2, is a rare condition. It causes tumors in the thyroid and parathyroid glands, adrenal glands, lips, mouth, eyes and digestive tract. Genetic testing can find the changed gene that causes MEN 2. Health care providers can treat the health issues that gene may cause.
MEN 2 is an inherited disorder. This means people who have the changed gene can pass it on to their children. Each child has a 50% chance of getting the disorder.
There are no home remedies available for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2) :
Symptoms of MEN 2 depend on the type of tumor. People who have MEN 2B have a unique appearance. They may have bumps on the tongue, lips and eyes. They tend to be tall and thin with long arms and legs. Following are symptoms that may be related to each tumor type.
Medullary thyroid cancer:
Lumps in the throat or neck
Trouble breathing or swallowing
Hoarseness
Diarrhea
Parathyroid hyperplasia, also known as primary hyperparathyroidism:
Muscle and joint pain
Constipation
Fatigue
Memory problems
Kidney stones
Adrenal tumors, also known as pheochromocytoma:
High blood pressure
Rapid heart rate
Anxiety
Headaches
Symptoms may be caused by a thyroid tumor pressing on tissues around it or by the release of too many hormones in the body. Some people who have medullary thyroid cancer may have no symptoms.
Causes for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2) :
MEN 2 is an inherited condition. This means someone who has a changed gene that can cause MEN 2 can pass that gene on to their children.
Many people also may be the first person in their families to have this disorder. People diagnosed with medullary thyroid cancer are screened regularly for MEN 2.
There are no Risk Factors available for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2) in the knowledge baseComplications for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2):
MEN 2 can cause the parathyroid glands to put too much calcium into the blood. This is known as primary hyperparathyroidism. The parathyroid glands are located in your neck. The extra calcium in the blood can cause many issues, including weak bones, called osteoporosis, kidney stones and having to urinate a lot. Medullary thyroid cancer shows up as a lump on the thyroid or neck. It can be hard to swallow when the tumor is large or other symptoms if the cancer spreads outside the neck.
People with MEN 2 also can have a condition called pheochromocytoma. This condition causes noncancerous tumors on an adrenal gland. The adrenal glands are located at the top of the kidneys. These tumors can release hormones that cause high blood pressure, sweating and other symptoms.
Preventions for Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2)
Genetic testing is used to find out if someone has a changed gene that causes MEN 2. Children of someone who has this changed gene could inherit it and develop MEN 2. Parents and siblings also could have the changed gene even if they don't have symptoms.
If someone in your family is diagnosed with MEN 2, your health care provider will likely recommend you and your family members have genetic testing. This is because MEN 2 can be treated or managed by removing the thyroid gland early in life. Being screened for parathyroid or adrenal tumors also can help.
If no gene changes are found in family members, usually no other screening tests are needed. However, genetic testing doesn't find all MEN 2 gene changes. If MEN 2 isn't found in people who may have it, they and their family members will have regular blood and imaging tests over time to check for signs of the disease.
Condition name:Multiple myeloma
Overview of Multiple myeloma:
Multiple myeloma is a cancer that forms in a type of white blood cell called a plasma cell. Healthy plasma cells help fight infections by making proteins called antibodies. Antibodies find and attack germs.
In multiple myeloma, cancerous plasma cells build up in bone marrow. The bone marrow is the soft matter inside bones where blood cells are made. In the bone marrow, the cancer cells crowd out healthy blood cells. Rather than make helpful antibodies, the cancer cells make proteins that don't work right. This leads to complications of multiple myeloma.
Multiple myeloma treatment isn't always needed right away. If the multiple myeloma is slow growing and isn't causing symptoms, close watching might be the first step. For people with multiple myeloma who need treatment, there are a number of ways to help control the disease.
There are no home remedies available for Multiple myeloma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Multiple myeloma :
Early in multiple myeloma, there might be no symptoms. When signs and symptoms happen, they can include:
Bone pain, especially in the spine, chest or hips.
Nausea.
Constipation.
Loss of appetite.
Mental fogginess or confusion.
Tiredness.
Infections.
Weight loss.
Weakness.
Thirst.
Needing to urinate often.
Causes for Multiple myeloma :
It's not clear what causes myeloma.
Multiple myeloma begins with one plasma cell in the bone marrow. The bone marrow is the soft matter inside bones where blood cells are made. Something happens that turns the plasma cell into a cancerous myeloma cell. The myeloma cell begins making a lot more myeloma cells quickly.
Healthy cells grow at a set pace and die at a set time. Cancer cells don't follow these rules. They make a lot of extra cells. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die. In myeloma, the cancer cells build up in the bone marrow and crowd out the healthy blood cells. This leads to tiredness and not being able to fight infections.
The myeloma cells continue trying to make antibodies, as healthy plasma cells do. But the body can't use these antibodies, called monoclonal proteins or M proteins. Instead, the M proteins build up in the body and cause problems, such as damage to the kidneys. Myeloma cells can damage bones and increase the risk of broken bones.
Risk Factors for Multiple myeloma:
Factors that may increase the risk of multiple myeloma include:
Getting older. Most people are diagnosed in their late 60s.
Being male. Men are more likely to develop the disease than are women.
Being Black. Black people are more likely to develop multiple myeloma than are people of other races.
Having a family history of multiple myeloma. Having a sibling or parent with multiple myeloma increases the risk of the disease.
Having monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, also called MGUS. Multiple myeloma starts as MGUS, so having this condition increases the risk.
There's no way to prevent multiple myeloma. If you get multiple myeloma, you didn't do anything to cause it.
Complications for Multiple myeloma:
Complications of multiple myeloma include:
Infections. Having multiple myeloma lowers the body's ability to fight infections.
Bone problems. Multiple myeloma can cause bone pain, thinning bones and broken bones.
Kidney problems. Multiple myeloma may cause problems with the kidneys. It can lead to kidney failure.
Low red blood cell count, called anemia. As myeloma cells crowd out healthy blood cells, multiple myeloma can also cause anemia and other blood problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Multiple myeloma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Multiple sclerosis
Overview of Multiple sclerosis:
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a potentially disabling disease of the brain and spinal cord (central nervous system).
In MS, the immune system attacks the protective sheath (myelin) that covers nerve fibers and causes communication problems between your brain and the rest of your body. Eventually, the disease can cause permanent damage or deterioration of the nerve fibers.
Signs and symptoms of MS vary widely between patients and depend on the location and severity of nerve fiber damage in the central nevous system. Some people with severe MS may lose the ability to walk independently or ambulate at all. Other individuals may experience long periods of remission without any new symptoms depending on the type of MS they have.
There's no cure for multiple sclerosis. However, there are treatments to help speed the recovery from attacks, modify the course of the disease and manage symptoms.
Home Remedies for Multiple sclerosis:
To help relieve the signs and symptoms of MS, try to:
Get plenty of rest. Look at your sleep habits to make sure you're getting the best possible sleep. To make sure you're getting enough sleep, you may need to be evaluated â€” and possibly treated â€” for sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea.
Exercise. If you have mild to moderate MS, regular exercise can help improve your strength, muscle tone, balance and coordination. Swimming or other water exercises are good options if you have intolerance to heat. Other types of mild to moderate exercise recommended for people with MS include walking, stretching, low-impact aerobics, stationary bicycling, yoga and tai chi.
Cool down. MS symptoms may worsen when the body temperature rises in some people with MS. Avoiding exposure to heat and using devices such as cooling scarves or vests can be helpful.
Eat a balanced diet. Since there is little evidence to support a particular diet, experts recommend a generally healthy diet. Some research suggests that vitamin D may have potential benefit for people with MS.
Relieve stress. Stress may trigger or worsen your signs and symptoms. Yoga, tai chi, massage, meditation or deep breathing may help.
More Information
Multiple sclerosis care at Mayo Clinic
Exercise and multiple sclerosis
Vitamin D and MS: Any connection?
Show more related information
Symptoms for Multiple sclerosis :
Multiple sclerosis signs and symptoms may differ greatly from person to person and over the course of the disease depending on the location of affected nerve fibers.
Common symptoms include:
Numbness or weakness in one or more limbs that typically occurs on one side of your body at a time
Tingling
Electric-shock sensations that occur with certain neck movements, especially bending the neck forward (Lhermitte sign)
Lack of coordination
Unsteady gait or inability to walk
Partial or complete loss of vision, usually in one eye at a time, often with pain during eye movement
Prolonged double vision
Blurry vision
Vertigo
Problems with sexual, bowel and bladder function
Fatigue
Slurred speech
Cognitive problems
Mood disturbances
Causes for Multiple sclerosis :
The cause of multiple sclerosis is unknown. It's considered an immune mediated disease in which the body's immune system attacks its own tissues. In the case of MS, this immune system malfunction destroys the fatty substance that coats and protects nerve fibers in the brain and spinal cord (myelin).
Myelin can be compared to the insulation coating on electrical wires. When the protective myelin is damaged and the nerve fiber is exposed, the messages that travel along that nerve fiber may be slowed or blocked.
It isn't clear why MS develops in some people and not others. A combination of genetics and environmental factors appears to be responsible.
Risk Factors for Multiple sclerosis:
These factors may increase your risk of developing multiple sclerosis:
Age. MS can occur at any age, but onset usually occurs around 20 and 40 years of age. However, younger and older people can be affected.
Sex. Women are more than 2 to 3 times as likely as men are to have relapsing-remitting MS.
Family history. If one of your parents or siblings has had MS, you are at higher risk of developing the disease.
Certain infections. A variety of viruses have been linked to MS, including Epstein-Barr, the virus that causes infectious mononucleosis.
Race. White people, particularly those of Northern European descent, are at highest risk of developing MS. People of Asian, African or Native American descent have the lowest risk. A recent study suggests that the number of Black and Hispanic young adults with multiple sclerosis may be greater than previously thought.
Climate. MS is far more common in countries with temperate climates, including Canada, the northern United States, New Zealand, southeastern Australia and Europe. Your birth month may also affect the chances of developing multiple sclerosis, since exposure to the sun when a mother is pregnant seems to decrease later development of multiple sclerosis in these children.
Vitamin D. Having low levels of vitamin D and low exposure to sunlight is associated with a greater risk of MS.
Your genes. A gene on chromosome 6p21 has been found to be associated with multiple sclerosis.
Obesity. An association with obesity and multiple sclerosis has been found in females. This is especially true for female childhood and adolescent obesity.
Certain autoimmune diseases. You have a slightly higher risk of developing MS if you have other autoimmune disorders such as thyroid disease, pernicious anemia, psoriasis, type 1 diabetes or inflammatory bowel disease.
Smoking. Smokers who experience an initial symptom that may signal MS are more likely than nonsmokers to develop a second event that confirms relapsing-remitting MS.
There are no Complications available for Multiple sclerosis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Multiple sclerosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Multiple system atrophy
Overview of Multiple system atrophy:
Multiple system atrophy, also called MSA, causes people to lose coordination and balance or become slow and stiff. It also causes changes in speech and loss of control of other bodily functions.
MSA is a rare condition. It sometimes shares symptoms with Parkinson's disease, including slow movement, rigid muscles and poor balance.
Treatment includes medicines and lifestyle changes to help manage symptoms, but there is no cure. The condition gets worse over time and eventually leads to death.
In the past, this condition has been called Shy-Drager syndrome, olivopontocerebellar atrophy or striatonigral degeneration.
Home Remedies for Multiple system atrophy:
Some lifestyle and home remedies can help minimize multiple system atrophy (MSA) symptoms.
Take steps to raise your blood pressure. Add a little salt to your diet and drink more fluids, especially before exercise. Salt and fluids can increase blood volume and raise your blood pressure. Drink coffee and other fluids that contain caffeine to increase your blood pressure.
Raise the head of your bed. Raising the head of your bed by about 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 centimeters) helps control your blood pressure when you sleep. Get up slowly after lying down.
Make dietary changes. Eat more fiber to ease constipation. Laxatives or stool softeners may help. You can get them without a prescription. Also eat small, low-carbohydrate meals.
Don't get too hot. Stay in air-conditioned rooms on very hot days. Make sure the bathroom doesn't become too hot when you shower or bathe.
Wear elastic support stockings up to your waist. This can help keep your blood pressure from dropping.
Symptoms for Multiple system atrophy :
Multiple system atrophy (MSA) symptoms affect many parts of the body. Symptoms start in adulthood, usually in the 50s or 60s.
There are two types of MSA: parkinsonian and cerebellar. The type depends on the symptoms a person has when diagnosed.
Causes for Multiple system atrophy :
There is no known cause for multiple system atrophy (MSA). Some researchers are studying the possible role of genetics or environmental causes such as a toxin in MSA. But there's no substantial evidence to support these theories.
MSA causes parts of the brain to shrink. This is known as atrophy. The areas of the brain that shrink due to MSA include the cerebellum, basal ganglia and brainstem. The atrophy of these parts of the brain affect internal body functions and movement.
Under a microscope, the brain tissue of people with MSA shows a buildup of a protein called alpha-synuclein. Some research suggests that the buildup of this protein leads to multiple system atrophy.
Risk Factors for Multiple system atrophy:
A risk factor for multiple system atrophy (MSA) is having rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder. People with this disorder act out their dreams. Most people who have MSA have a history of REM sleep behavior disorder.
Another risk factor is having a condition caused by the autonomic nervous system not working properly. Symptoms such as urinary incontinence could be an early sign of MSA. The autonomic nervous system controls involuntary functions.
Complications for Multiple system atrophy:
Complications of multiple system atrophy (MSA) vary from person to person. But for everyone with the disease, MSA symptoms get worse over time. The symptoms can make daily activities harder as time goes on.
Possible complications include:
Worsening breathing symptoms during sleep.
Injuries from falls caused by poor balance or fainting.
The breakdown of the skin in people who have trouble moving or can't move.
Not being able to care for yourself in day-to-day activities.
Vocal cord paralysis, which affects speech and breathing.
Increased trouble swallowing.
People typically live about 7 to 10 years after multiple system atrophy symptoms first appear. However, the survival rate with MSA varies widely. Death is often due to trouble breathing, infections or blood clots in the lungs.
There are no preventive measures available for Multiple system atrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C)
Overview of Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C):
Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a group of symptoms linked to swollen, called inflamed, organs or tissues. People with MIS-C need care in the hospital.
MIS-C was first detected in April 2020. MIS-C is currently linked to coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Experts are still studying the cause of MIS-C and risk factors for getting it.
Most children who catch the COVID-19 virus have only a mild illness. But in children with MIS-C, after infection with the COVID-19 virus, the blood vessels, digestive system, skin or eyes become swollen and irritated.
MIS-C is rare. It most often happens within 2 months after having COVID-19. The child may have had a known infection. Or a close contact may have a confirmed infection.
Most children who have MIS-C eventually get better with medical care. But some kids quickly get worse. MIS-C can cause life-threatening illness or death.
There are no home remedies available for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) :
Not found
Causes for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) :
The exact cause of MIS-C is not known yet. Many children with MIS-C have had a recent infection with the COVID-19 virus. Some may have a current infection with the virus.
One idea of a possible cause of MIS-C is that infection with the virus that causes COVID-19, either current or earlier, causes the immune system to overreact.
Risk Factors for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C):
Children diagnosed with MIS-C are often between the ages of 5 and 11 years old. But cases are reported among children ages 1 to 15. A few cases have also happened in older kids and in babies.
Complications for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C):
MIS-C is thought to be a complication of COVID-19. Without early diagnosis and treatment, MIS-C can lead to severe problems with vital organs, such as the heart. In rare cases, MIS-C could lead to permanent damage or even death.
Preventions for Multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C)
In the U.S., COVID-19 vaccines are now offered to people age 6 months and older.
A vaccine can prevent you or your child from getting or spreading the COVID-19 virus. If you or your child gets COVID-19, a COVID-19 vaccine could prevent you or your child from becoming seriously ill.
To prevent getting the COVID-19 virus and spreading it to others, the CDC recommends following these precautions:
Keep hands clean. Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water aren't available, use a hand sanitizer that has at least 60% alcohol.
Avoid close contact with anyone who is sick. Avoid people who are coughing, sneezing or showing other signs that they might be sick and contagious.
In public indoor spaces, keep distance between yourself and others. This is especially important in places with poor airflow.
When COVID-19 community levels are high, wear a face mask in public indoor places. If your area has a high number of people with COVID-19 in the hospital, masks help prevent infection. The CDC suggests wearing the most protective mask possible that you'll wear regularly, fits well and is comfortable.
Avoid touching your nose, eyes and mouth. Urge your child to follow your lead and avoid touching the face.
Cover your mouth with a tissue or your elbow when you sneeze or cough. Throw away the used tissue. Wash your hands right away.
Clean and disinfect high-touch surfaces regularly. This includes areas of your home such as doorknobs, light switches, remotes and keyboards.
Condition name:Muscle cramp
Overview of Muscle cramp:
A muscle cramp is a sudden, unexpected tightening of one or more muscles. Sometimes called a charley horse, a muscle cramp can be very painful. Exercising or working hard, especially in heat, can lead to muscle cramps. Some medicines and illnesses also might cause muscle cramps.
Muscle cramps aren't usually harmful. Self-care measures can treat most muscle cramps.
Home Remedies for Muscle cramp:
Calf stretch
Enlarge image
If you have a cramp, these actions might help:
Stretch and massage. Stretch the cramped muscle and gently rub it. For a calf cramp, keep the leg straight while pulling the top of your foot on the side that's cramped toward your face. Also try standing with your weight on your cramped leg and pressing down firmly. This helps ease a cramp in the back of the thigh too.
For a front thigh cramp, try pulling the foot on that leg up toward your buttock. Hold on to a chair to steady yourself.
Apply heat or cold. Use a warm towel or heating pad on tense or tight muscles. Taking a warm bath or directing the stream of a hot shower onto the cramped muscle also can help. Rubbing the sore muscle with ice also might relieve pain.
Symptoms for Muscle cramp :
Muscle cramps occur mostly in leg muscles, most often in the calf. Cramps usually last for seconds to minutes. After the cramp eases, the area might be sore for hours or days.
Causes for Muscle cramp :
A muscle cramp can happen after working a muscle too hard or straining it, losing body fluids through sweat or simply holding a position for a long time. Often, however, the cause isn't known.
Most muscle cramps are harmless. But some might be related to a medical concern, such as:
Not enough blood flow. A narrowing of the arteries that bring blood to the legs can cause a cramping pain in the legs and feet during exercise. These cramps usually go away soon after exercise stops.
Nerve compression. Pressure on the nerves in the spine also can cause cramping pain in the legs. The pain usually gets worse with walking. Walking bent slightly forward, such as when pushing a shopping cart, might ease cramping.
Not enough minerals. Too little potassium, calcium or magnesium in the diet can cause leg cramps. Medicines often prescribed for high blood pressure can cause increased urination, which may drain the body of these minerals.
Risk Factors for Muscle cramp:
Factors that might increase the risk of muscle cramps include:
Age. Older people lose muscle mass. Then the muscles can't work as hard and can get stressed more easily.
Poor conditioning. Not being in shape for an activity causes muscles to tire more easily.
Extreme sweating. Athletes who get tired and sweat a lot while playing sports in warm weather often get muscle cramps.
Pregnancy. Muscle cramps are common during pregnancy.
Medical issues. Having diabetes or illnesses that involve nerves, liver or thyroid can increase the risk of muscle cramps.
Weight. Being overweight can increase the risk of muscle cramps.
There are no Complications available for Muscle cramp in the knowledge basePreventions for Muscle cramp
These steps might help prevent cramps:
Drink plenty of liquids every day. Muscles need fluids to work well. During activity, drink liquids regularly. Keep drinking water or other liquids without caffeine or alcohol after the activity.
Stretch your muscles. Stretch gently before and after using any muscle for a time. To avoid getting leg cramps at night, stretch before bedtime. Light exercise, such as riding a stationary bicycle for a few minutes before bedtime, also may help prevent cramps while you sleep.
Condition name:Muscle strains
Overview of Muscle strains:
A muscle strain is an injury to a muscle or a tendon — the fibrous tissue that connects muscles to bones. Minor injuries may only overstretch a muscle or tendon, while more severe injuries may involve partial or complete tears in these tissues.
Sometimes called pulled muscles, strains commonly occur in the lower back and in the muscles at the back of the thigh (hamstrings).
The difference between a strain and a sprain is that a strain involves an injury to a muscle or to the band of tissue that attaches a muscle to a bone, while a sprain injures the bands of tissue that connect two bones together.
Initial treatment includes rest, ice, compression and elevation. Mild strains can be successfully treated at home. Severe strains sometimes require surgical repair.
There are no home remedies available for Muscle strains in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Muscle strains :
Signs and symptoms will vary, depending on the severity of the injury, and may include:
Pain or tenderness
Redness or bruising
Limited motion
Muscle spasms
Swelling
Muscle weakness
Causes for Muscle strains :
Acute strains can be caused by one event, such as using poor body mechanics to lift something heavy. Chronic muscle strains can result from repetitive injuries when you stress a muscle by doing the same motion over and over.
Risk Factors for Muscle strains:
Participating in contact sports — such as soccer, football, hockey, boxing and wrestling — can increase your risk of muscle strains.
Certain parts of the body are more susceptible to strains during participation in certain sports. Examples include:
Legs and ankles. Sports that feature quick starts and jumping, such as hurdling and basketball, can be particularly tough on the Achilles tendon in your ankle.
Hands. Gripping sports, such as gymnastics or golf, can increase your risk of muscle strains in your hands.
Elbows. Elbow strains are often caused by throwing sports and racquet sports.
There are no Complications available for Muscle strains in the knowledge basePreventions for Muscle strains
Regular stretching and strengthening exercises for your sport, fitness or work activity, as part of an overall physical conditioning program, can help to minimize your risk of muscle strains. Try to be in shape to play your sport; don't play your sport to get in shape. If you have a physically demanding occupation, regular conditioning can help prevent injuries.
Condition name:Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS)
Overview of Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS):
Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is a complicated disorder.
It causes extreme fatigue that lasts for at least six months. Symptoms worsen with physical or mental activity but don't fully improve with rest.
The cause of ME/CFS is unknown, although there are many theories. Experts believe it might be triggered by a combination of factors.
There's no single test to confirm a diagnosis. You may need a variety of medical tests to rule out other health problems that have similar symptoms. Treatment for the condition focuses on easing symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) :
Symptoms of ME/CFS can vary from person to person, and the severity of symptoms can fluctuate from day to day. In addition to fatigue, symptoms may include:
Extreme exhaustion after physical or mental exercise.
Problems with memory or thinking skills.
Dizziness that worsens with moving from lying down or sitting to standing.
Muscle or joint pain.
Unrefreshing sleep.
Some people with this condition have headaches, sore throats, and tender lymph nodes in the neck or armpits. People with the condition also may become extra sensitive to light, sound, smells, food and medicines.
Causes for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) :
The cause of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) is still unknown. A combination of factors may be involved, including:
Genetics. ME/CFS appears to run in some families, so some people may be born with a higher likelihood of developing the disorder.
Infections. Some people develop ME/CFS symptoms after getting better from a viral or bacterial infection.
Physical or emotional trauma. Some people report that they experienced an injury, surgery or significant emotional stress shortly before their symptoms began.
Problems with energy usage. Some people with ME/CFS have problems converting the body's fuel, primarily fats and sugars, into energy.
Risk Factors for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS):
Factors that may increase your risk of ME/CFS include:
Age. ME/CFS can occur at any age, but it most commonly affects young to middle-aged adults.
Sex. Women are diagnosed with ME/CFS much more often than men, but it may be that women are simply more likely to report their symptoms to a doctor.
Other medical problems. People who have a history of other complex medical problems, such as fibromyalgia or postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, may be more likely to develop ME/CFS.
Complications for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS):
Symptoms of ME/CFS can come and go, and often are triggered by physical activity or emotional stress. This can make it difficult for people to maintain a regular work schedule or to even take care of themselves at home.
Many people may be too weak to get out of bed at different points during their illness. Some may need to use a wheelchair.
There are no preventive measures available for Myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myasthenia gravis
Overview of Myasthenia gravis:
Myasthenia gravis (my-us-THEE-nee-uh GRAY-vis) causes muscles under your voluntary control to feel weak and get tired quickly. This happens when the communication between nerves and muscles breaks down.
There's no cure for myasthenia gravis. Treatment can help with symptoms. These symptoms can include weakness of arm or leg muscles, double vision, drooping eyelids, and problems with speaking, chewing, swallowing and breathing.
This disease can affect people of any age, but it's more common in women younger than 40 and in men older than 60.
Home Remedies for Myasthenia gravis:
To help you make the most of your energy and cope with the symptoms of myasthenia gravis:
Adjust your eating routine. Try to eat when you have good muscle strength. Take your time chewing your food, and take a break between bites of food. You might find it easier to eat small meals several times a day. Also, try eating mainly soft foods and avoid foods that require more chewing, such as raw fruits or vegetables.
Use safety precautions at home. Install grab bars or railings in places where you need support, such as next to the bathtub or next to steps. Keep your floors clean, and move area rugs. Outside your home, keep paths, sidewalks and driveways cleared of leaves, snow and other debris that could cause you to trip.
Use electric appliances and power tools. To save your energy, try using an electric toothbrush, electric can openers and other electrical tools to perform tasks.
Wear an eye patch. If you have double vision, an eye patch can help. Try wearing one to write, read or watch television. Switch the eye patch to the other eye regularly to help reduce eyestrain.
Plan. If you have chores, shopping or errands to do, plan the activity for when you have the most energy.
Symptoms for Myasthenia gravis :
Muscle weakness caused by myasthenia gravis gets worse when the affected muscle is used. Because symptoms usually get better with rest, muscle weakness can come and go. However, the symptoms tend to progress over time. They usually reach their worst within a few years after the disease begins.
Myasthenia gravis may affect any of the muscles that you can control. Certain muscle groups are more commonly affected than others.
There are no Causes available for Myasthenia gravis in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Myasthenia gravis in the knowledge baseComplications for Myasthenia gravis:
Complications of myasthenia gravis are treatable, but some can be life-threatening.
There are no preventive measures available for Myasthenia gravis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD)
Overview of Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD):
Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease, also known as MOGAD, is a rare inflammatory disease that affects the central nervous system. In MOGAD, the immune system attacks the fatty substance that protects nerve fibers in the optic nerves, brain and spinal cord.
Symptoms of MOGAD may include vision loss, muscle weakness, stiffness or paralysis, confusion, seizures, and headaches. These symptoms can be sometimes confused with other diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
There's no cure for MOGAD. However, there are treatments to help speed the recovery from attacks, manage symptoms and reduce the likelihood of symptoms returning.
There are no home remedies available for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) :
MOGAD causes painful swelling, known as inflammation. Symptoms are caused by attacks from:
Inflammation of the optic nerve. Called optic neuritis, this condition may lead to vision loss in one or both eyes and eye pain that gets worse with eye movement. Optic neuritis in children may be mistaken for a headache.
Inflammation of the spinal cord. Called transverse myelitis, this condition may lead to arm or leg weakness, muscle stiffness, or paralysis. It also may cause sensory loss and changes in bowel, bladder or sexual function.
Inflammation of the brain and spinal cord. Called acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, also known as ADEM, this condition may lead to vision loss, weakness, unsteady walk and confusion. ADEM is more common in children with MOGAD.
Other symptoms of MOGAD may include:
Seizures.
Headaches.
Fever.
Causes for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) :
The cause of MOGAD is not known. It's an autoimmune disorder in which the body's immune system attacks its own tissues. In people with MOGAD, the immune system destroys the fatty substance called myelin. Myelin coats and protects nerve fibers in the optic nerve, brain and spinal cord.
The brain sends messages down nerve fibers that help tell parts of the body what to do. When the myelin is damaged and nerve fibers are exposed, those messages may be slowed or blocked. This means those parts of the body won't work properly.
MOGAD is often misdiagnosed as another disease that attacks myelin and causes similar symptoms. It may be mistaken for multiple sclerosis, known as MS. Or it may be confused with a condition called neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder, also known as NMOSD.
MOGAD is different from MS and NMOSD because the first attack of MOGAD is usually the most severe, but people with the disease can have a complete recovery. MOGAD also is diagnosed differently, using results from MRI and blood tests. People with MS and NMOSD typically have multiple attacks, while about half of people with MOGAD have only one attack.
Risk Factors for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD):
These factors may increase your risk of developing MOGAD:
Age. Children and young adults are slightly more likely to develop MOGAD.
Recent infection or vaccination. MOGAD may develop after an infectious illness or vaccination, such as SARS-CoV-2.
Complications for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD):
MOGAD complications are caused by the attacks on the fatty substance that protects nerve fibers in the optic nerves, brain and spinal cord. The first attack is usually the worst, but each attack can cause more damage. Some possible complications may include:
Permanent paralysis in the arms and legs.
Long-term bowel and bladder difficulties.
Blindness in one or both eyes.
Trouble with language, memory and thinking.
Some MOGAD treatments also may cause complications. Long-term use of certain medicines may result in:
Infection.
Lymphoma or skin cancers.
Slowed growth in children.
Headaches.
Kidney failure.
Your healthcare team will work with you to decide which treatment options are the best and how long to continue them.
There are no preventive measures available for Myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myelodysplastic syndromes
Overview of Myelodysplastic syndromes:
Myelodysplastic syndromes are a group of disorders caused by blood cells that are poorly formed or don't work properly. Myelodysplastic syndromes result from something amiss in the spongy material inside your bones where blood cells are made (bone marrow).
Management of myelodysplastic syndromes is most often intended to slow the disease, ease symptoms and prevent complications. Common measures include blood transfusions and medications to boost blood cell production. In certain situations, a bone marrow transplant, also known as a stem cell transplant, may be recommended to replace your bone marrow with healthy bone marrow from a donor.
Home Remedies for Myelodysplastic syndromes:
Because people with certain myelodysplastic syndromes have low white blood cell counts, they're subject to recurrent, and often serious, infections.
To reduce your risk of infections:
Wash your hands. Wash hands frequently and thoroughly with warm, soapy water, especially before eating or preparing food. Carry an alcohol-based hand sanitizer for times when water isn't available.
Take care with food. Thoroughly cook all meat and fish. Avoid fruits and vegetables you can't peel, especially lettuce, and wash all produce you do use before peeling it. To increase safety, you might want to avoid all raw foods.
Avoid people who are ill. Try to avoid close contact with anyone who is sick, including family members and co-workers.
Symptoms for Myelodysplastic syndromes :
People with myelodysplastic syndromes might not experience signs and symptoms at first.
In time, myelodysplastic syndromes might cause:
Fatigue
Shortness of breath
Unusual paleness (pallor), which occurs due to a low red blood cell count (anemia)
Easy or unusual bruising or bleeding, which occurs due to a low blood platelet count (thrombocytopenia)
Pinpoint-sized red spots just beneath the skin that are caused by bleeding (petechiae)
Frequent infections, which occur due to a low white blood cell count (leukopenia)
Causes for Myelodysplastic syndromes :
In a healthy person, bone marrow makes new, immature blood cells that mature over time. Myelodysplastic syndromes occur when something disrupts this process so that the blood cells don't mature.
Instead of developing normally, the blood cells die in the bone marrow or just after entering the bloodstream. Over time, there are more immature, defective cells than healthy ones, leading to problems such as fatigue caused by too few healthy red blood cells (anemia), infections caused by too few healthy white blood cells (leukopenia) and bleeding caused by too few blood-clotting platelets (thrombocytopenia).
Most myelodysplastic syndromes have no known cause. Others are caused by exposure to cancer treatments, such as chemotherapy and radiation, or to toxic chemicals, such as benzene.
Risk Factors for Myelodysplastic syndromes:
Factors that can increase your risk of myelodysplastic syndromes include:
Older age. Most people with myelodysplastic syndromes are older than 60.
Previous treatment with chemotherapy or radiation. Chemotherapy or radiation therapy, both of which are commonly used to treat cancer, can increase your risk of myelodysplastic syndromes.
Exposure to certain chemicals. Chemicals, including benzene, have been linked to myelodysplastic syndromes.
Complications for Myelodysplastic syndromes:
Complications of myelodysplastic syndromes include:
Anemia. Reduced numbers of red blood cells can cause anemia, which can make you feel tired.
Recurrent infections. Having too few white blood cells increases your risk of serious infections.
Bleeding that won't stop. Lacking platelets in your blood to stop bleeding can lead to excessive bleeding.
Increased risk of cancer. Some people with myelodysplastic syndromes might eventually develop a cancer of the bone marrow and blood cells (leukemia).
There are no preventive measures available for Myelodysplastic syndromes in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myelofibrosis
Overview of Myelofibrosis:
Myelofibrosis is an uncommon type of bone marrow cancer that disrupts your body's normal production of blood cells.
Myelofibrosis causes extensive scarring in your bone marrow, leading to severe anemia that can cause weakness and fatigue. Bone marrow scarring can also cause you to have a low number of blood-clotting cells called platelets, which increases the risk of bleeding. Myelofibrosis often causes an enlarged spleen.
Myelofibrosis is considered to be a chronic leukemia — a cancer that affects the blood-forming tissues in the body. Myelofibrosis belongs to a group of diseases called myeloproliferative disorders.
Myelofibrosis can happen on its own (primary myelofibrosis) or it can develop from another bone marrow disorder (secondary myelofibrosis).
Some people with myelofibrosis have no symptoms and might not need treatment right away. Others with more-serious forms of the disease might need aggressive treatments right away. Treatment for myelofibrosis, which focuses on relieving symptoms, can involve a variety of options.
There are no home remedies available for Myelofibrosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Myelofibrosis :
Myelofibrosis usually develops slowly. In its very early stages, many people don't experience signs or symptoms.
As disruption of normal blood cell production increases, signs and symptoms may include:
Feeling tired, weak or short of breath, usually because of anemia
Pain or fullness below your ribs on the left side, due to an enlarged spleen
Easy bruising
Easy bleeding
Excessive sweating during sleep (night sweats)
Fever
Bone pain
Causes for Myelofibrosis :
Myelofibrosis occurs when bone marrow stem cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. The stem cells have the ability to replicate and divide into the multiple specialized cells that make up your blood — red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets.
It's not clear what causes the genetic mutations in bone marrow stem cells.
As the mutated blood stem cells replicate and divide, they pass along the mutations to the new cells. As more and more of these mutated cells are created, they begin to have serious effects on blood production.
The end result is usually a lack of red blood cells — which causes the anemia characteristic of myelofibrosis — and an overabundance of white blood cells and varying levels of platelets. In people with myelofibrosis, the normally spongy bone marrow becomes scarred.
Several specific gene mutations have been identified in people with myelofibrosis. The most common is the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) gene mutation. Other less common mutations include CALR and MPL. Some people with myelofibrosis don't have any identifiable gene mutations. Knowing whether these gene mutations are associated with your myelofibrosis helps determine your prognosis and your treatment.
Risk Factors for Myelofibrosis:
Although the cause of myelofibrosis often isn't known, certain factors are known to increase your risk:
Age. Myelofibrosis can affect anyone, but it's most often diagnosed in people older than 50.
Another blood cell disorder. A small portion of people with myelofibrosis develop the condition as a complication of essential thrombocythemia or polycythemia vera.
Exposure to certain chemicals. Myelofibrosis has been linked to exposure to industrial chemicals such as toluene and benzene.
Exposure to radiation. People exposed to very high levels of radiation have an increased risk of myelofibrosis.
There are no Complications available for Myelofibrosis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Myelofibrosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myocarditis
Overview of Myocarditis:
Myocarditis is inflammation of the heart muscle, called the myocardium. The condition can reduce the heart's ability to pump blood. Myocarditis can cause chest pain, shortness of breath, and rapid or irregular heartbeats.
Infection with a virus is one cause of myocarditis. Sometimes myocarditis is caused by a medicine reaction or a condition that causes inflammation throughout the body.
Severe myocarditis weakens the heart so that the rest of the body doesn't get enough blood. Clots can form in the heart, leading to a stroke or heart attack.
Treatment for myocarditis may include medicines, procedures or surgeries.
Home Remedies for Myocarditis:
Rest and reducing the strain on the heart are important parts of myocarditis recovery.
If you have or had myocarditis, ask your healthcare professional which type and amount of physical activity is safe for you. If you have myocarditis, you should avoid competitive sports for at least 3 to 6 months.
Symptoms for Myocarditis :
Some people with early myocarditis don't have symptoms. Others have mild symptoms.
Common myocarditis symptoms include:
Chest pain.
Fatigue.
Swelling of the legs, ankles and feet.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Shortness of breath, at rest or during activity.
Lightheadedness or feeling like you might faint.
Flu-like symptoms such as headache, body aches, joint pain, fever or sore throat.
Sometimes, myocarditis symptoms are like symptoms of a heart attack. If you are having unexplained chest pain and shortness of breath, seek emergency medical help.
Causes for Myocarditis :
Infections can cause myocarditis.
Viruses. Many viruses have been linked to myocarditis, including the adenovirus, which causes the common cold; the COVID-19 virus; viruses that cause hepatitis B and C; parvovirus, which causes a mild rash, usually in children; and herpes simplex virus.
Gastrointestinal infections due to echoviruses, Epstein-Barr virus, which causes mononucleosis, and German measles, also called rubella, all can cause myocarditis. Myocarditis also can be caused by HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.
Bacteria. Bacteria that can cause myocarditis include staphylococcus, streptococcus, and bacteria that cause diphtheria and Lyme disease.
Parasites. Parasites that can cause myocarditis are Trypanosoma cruzi and toxoplasma. Some parasites are transmitted by insects and can cause a condition called Chagas disease. Chagas disease is much more common in Central and South America than in the United States.
Fungi. A fungal infection may cause myocarditis, particularly in people with weakened immune systems. Fungal infections linked to myocarditis include yeast infections, such as candida; molds, such as aspergillus; and histoplasma, often found in bird droppings.
Myocarditis also may be caused by:
Certain medicines or illegal drugs. These include medicines used to treat cancer; antibiotics, such as penicillin and sulfonamide drugs; some anti-seizure medicines; and cocaine. When these cause myocarditis, it's called drug-induced myocarditis.
Chemicals or radiation. Exposure to carbon monoxide and radiation can sometimes cause myocarditis.
Other health conditions. Conditions that may cause myocarditis include lupus, Wegener's granulomatosis, giant cell arteritis and Takayasu's arteritis.
Often, the cause of myocarditis isn't found.
There are no Risk Factors available for Myocarditis in the knowledge baseComplications for Myocarditis:
Usually, myocarditis goes away without complications. However, severe myocarditis can permanently damage the heart muscle.
Possible complications of myocarditis may include:
Heart failure. Untreated, myocarditis can damage the heart muscle so that it can't pump blood well. People with myocarditis-related heart failure may need a ventricular assist device or a heart transplant.
Heart attack or stroke. If the heart muscle is damaged and can't pump blood, the blood that collects in the heart can form clots. A heart attack can occur if a clot blocks one of the heart arteries. A stroke can happen if a blood clot in the heart travels to an artery leading to the brain.
Rapid or irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias. Damage to the heart muscle can change how the heart beats. Certain arrhythmias increase the risk of stroke.
Sudden cardiac death. Certain serious irregular heartbeats can cause the heart to suddenly stop beating, a condition called sudden cardiac arrest. If it leads to death it's called sudden cardiac death.
Preventions for Myocarditis
There's no specific prevention for myocarditis. However, taking these steps to prevent infections might help:
Stay away from people who are sick. Stay away from people with symptoms of the flu or other respiratory illness until they are better. If you're sick with symptoms of a viral infection, try to avoid passing the germs to others.
Wash your hands regularly. Frequent hand-washing is one of the best ways to not get sick and spread germs.
Avoid risky behaviors. To reduce the chances of getting an HIV-related myocardial infection, practice safe sex and don't use illegal drugs.
Get recommended vaccines. Stay up to date on recommended vaccines, including those that protect against COVID-19, influenza and rubella — diseases that can cause myocarditis. Rarely, the COVID-19 vaccine can cause myocarditis and inflammation of the outer heart lining, called pericarditis, particularly in males ages 12 to 29. Talk with your healthcare team about the benefits and risks of vaccines.
Condition name:Myoclonus
Overview of Myoclonus:
Myoclonus refers to a quick jerking movement that you can't control. Hiccups are a form of myoclonus, as are the sudden jerks or "sleep starts" that you may feel just before falling asleep. These forms of myoclonus occur in healthy people and usually aren't serious.
Other forms of myoclonus may occur because of a nervous system disorder, such as epilepsy, a metabolic condition, or a reaction to a medicine.
Treating whatever condition causes myoclonus can help control symptoms. Sometimes the cause of myoclonus is unknown or can't be specifically treated. In these cases, the goal of treatment is to reduce the effects of myoclonus on quality of life.
There are no home remedies available for Myoclonus in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Myoclonus :
People with myoclonus often describe their symptoms as jerks, shakes or spasms that are:
Sudden
Brief
Involuntary
Shock-like
Variable in intensity and frequency
Occurring in one part of the body or all over the body
Sometimes severe enough to interfere with eating, speaking or walking
Causes for Myoclonus :
Myoclonus may be caused by a variety of underlying problems. It is commonly separated into different types based on what is causing it. The cause can help determine treatment.
There are no Risk Factors available for Myoclonus in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Myoclonus in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Myoclonus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myofascial pain syndrome
Overview of Myofascial pain syndrome:
Myofascial pain syndrome is a long-term pain condition. It involves some muscles and the thin cover of tissue that holds muscles in place, called fascia. Pressure on these areas, called trigger points, causes pain.
Sometimes, the pain is felt in other parts of the body. This is called referred pain. The pain often is felt as shoulder pain, back pain, tension headaches and face pain.
This syndrome can happen after a muscle has been tensed over and over. Repeated motions used in jobs or hobbies can be the cause. So can stress-related muscle tension, poor posture and weak muscles. In some cases, the cause of myofascial pain is unknown.
Almost everyone has felt muscle tension pain. But the pain of myofascial pain syndrome doesn't go away. Treatment options include exercise, massage, physical therapy and shots in the trigger points. Pain medicines and finding ways to relax also can help.
Home Remedies for Myofascial pain syndrome:
Keeping your body healthy may make it easier for you to cope with your pain. Try to:
Exercise. Gentle exercise can help you cope with pain. When your pain allows, get moving. Ask your physical therapist or another member of your healthcare team about good exercises for you.
Relax. If you're tense, you may feel more pain. Find ways to relax. Do deep breathing. Meditate. Write in a journal. Talk with friends. Do what helps ease your stress.
Take care of your body. Eat a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. Get enough sleep.
Symptoms for Myofascial pain syndrome :
Symptoms of myofascial pain syndrome may include:
Deep, aching pain in a muscle.
Pain that doesn't go away or gets worse.
A tender knot in a muscle.
Trouble sleeping due to pain.
A general feeling of being not well, called malaise.
Tiredness.
Causes for Myofascial pain syndrome :
The exact cause of myofascial pain syndrome is not known. Areas of tight muscle fibers, called trigger points, form in muscles. Too much use of the muscles, most often with poor form, injury to the muscle and mental stress likely help cause trigger points.
Risk Factors for Myofascial pain syndrome:
In myofascial pain syndrome, something such as muscle tightness sets off trigger points in the muscles. Factors that may increase the risk of muscle trigger points include:
Muscle injury. A muscle injury or ongoing muscle stress may lead to the forming of trigger points. For instance, a spot in or near a strained muscle may become a trigger point. Repeat motions and poor posture also can increase the risk.
Stress and anxiety. People who often feel stressed and anxious may be more likely to get trigger points in their muscles. One theory is that these people may be more likely to clench their muscles. Clenching is a form of repeated strain that leaves muscles open to trigger points.
Complications for Myofascial pain syndrome:
Complications linked to myofascial pain syndrome include:
Sleep problems. Symptoms of myofascial pain syndrome may make it hard to sleep. It might be hard to find a good sleep position. And if you move while sleeping, you might hit a trigger point and awaken.
Fibromyalgia. Some research suggests that myofascial pain syndrome may lead to fibromyalgia in some people. Fibromyalgia is a long-term condition of widespread pain.
It's believed that the brains of people with fibromyalgia respond more to pain signals over time. Some experts believe myofascial pain syndrome might help start this process.
There are no preventive measures available for Myofascial pain syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Myxofibrosarcoma
Overview of Myxofibrosarcoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Myxofibrosarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Myxofibrosarcoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Myxofibrosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Myxofibrosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Myxofibrosarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Myxofibrosarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nail fungus
Overview of Nail fungus:
Nail fungus is a common infection of the nail. It begins as a white or yellow-brown spot under the tip of your fingernail or toenail. As the fungal infection goes deeper, the nail may discolor, thicken and crumble at the edge. Nail fungus can affect several nails.
If your condition is mild and not bothering you, you may not need treatment. If your nail fungus is painful and has caused thickened nails, self-care steps and medications may help. But even if treatment is successful, nail fungus often comes back.
Nail fungus is also called onychomycosis (on-ih-koh-my-KOH-sis). When fungus infects the areas between your toes and the skin of your feet, it's called athlete's foot (tinea pedis).
Home Remedies for Nail fungus:
Often, you can take care of a fungal nail infection at home:
Try nonprescription antifungal nail creams and ointments. Several products are available, such as terbinafine (Lamisil). If you notice white markings on the surfaces of the nails, file them off, soak your nails in water, dry them, and apply the medicated cream or lotion. Even if this clears up your symptoms, it's common for the infection to come back.
Trim and thin the nails. This helps reduce pain by reducing pressure on the nails. Also, if you do this before applying an antifungal, the drug can reach deeper layers of the nail.
Before trimming or using a nail file to thin thick nails, soften them with urea-containing creams. See a health care provider for foot care if you have a condition that causes poor blood flow to your feet.
Symptoms for Nail fungus :
Symptoms of nail fungus include a nail or nails that are:
Thickened
Discolored
Brittle, crumbly or ragged
Misshapen
Separated from the nail bed
Smelly
Nail fungus can affect fingernails, but it's more common in toenails.
Causes for Nail fungus :
Nail fungus is caused by various fungal organisms (fungi). The most common is a type called dermatophyte. Yeast, bacteria and molds also can cause nail infections. The discoloration from a bacterial infection tends to be green or black.
Fungal infection of the foot (athlete's foot) can spread to the nail, and a fungal infection of the nail can spread to the foot. You can also get the infection from contact with spaces where fungi can thrive, such as the floor tile in a gym shower or inside dark, sweaty, moist shoes.
Risk Factors for Nail fungus:
Factors that can increase your risk of developing nail fungus include:
Older age
Wearing shoes that make your feet sweat heavily
Having had athlete's foot in the past
Walking barefoot in damp public areas, such as swimming pools, gyms and shower rooms
Having a minor skin or nail injury
Having a skin condition that affects the nails, such as psoriasis
Having diabetes, blood flow problems or a weakened immune system
Complications for Nail fungus:
A severe case of nail fungus can be painful and may cause permanent damage to your nails. And it may lead to other serious infections that spread beyond your feet if you have a suppressed immune system due to medication, diabetes or other conditions.
Preventions for Nail fungus
The following habits can help prevent nail fungus or reinfections and athlete's foot, which can lead to nail fungus:
Keep your nails clean and dry. Wash your hands and feet regularly. Wash your hands after touching an infected nail. Dry well, apply an antifungal foot powder and moisturize your nails. Consider applying a nail hardener, which might help strengthen nails and cuticles.
Keep your nails trimmed. Cut nails straight across, smooth the edges with a file and file down thickened areas. Disinfect your nail clippers after each use. Letting your nails grow long creates more places for the fungus to grow.
Wear absorbent socks or change your socks throughout the day.
Choose shoes made of materials that breathe.
Discard old shoes or treat them with disinfectants or antifungal powders.
Wear footwear in pool areas and locker rooms.
Choose a nail salon that uses sterilized manicure tools for each customer. Or disinfect tools you use for home pedicures.
Give up nail polish and artificial nails.
If you have athlete's foot, treat it with an antifungal product.
Condition name:Narcissistic personality disorder
Overview of Narcissistic personality disorder:
Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental health condition in which people have an unreasonably high sense of their own importance. They need and seek too much attention and want people to admire them. People with this disorder may lack the ability to understand or care about the feelings of others. But behind this mask of extreme confidence, they are not sure of their self-worth and are easily upset by the slightest criticism.
A narcissistic personality disorder causes problems in many areas of life, such as relationships, work, school or financial matters. People with narcissistic personality disorder may be generally unhappy and disappointed when they're not given the special favors or admiration that they believe they deserve. They may find their relationships troubled and unfulfilling, and other people may not enjoy being around them.
Treatment for narcissistic personality disorder centers around talk therapy, also called psychotherapy.
Narcissistic personality disorder affects more males than females, and it often begins in the teens or early adulthood. Some children may show traits of narcissism, but this is often typical for their age and doesn't mean they'll go on to develop narcissistic personality disorder.
Home Remedies for Narcissistic personality disorder:
You may feel defensive about treatment or think it's unnecessary. The nature of narcissistic personality disorder also can leave you feeling that therapy is not worth your time and attention, and you may be tempted to quit. But it's important to:
Keep an open mind. Focus on the rewards of treatment.
Follow your treatment plan. Attend scheduled therapy sessions and take any medicines as directed. Remember, it can be hard work and you may have occasional setbacks.
Get treatment for alcohol or drug misuse or other mental health problems. Addiction, depression, anxiety and stress can lead to a cycle of emotional pain and unhealthy behavior.
Stay focused on your goals. Stay motivated by keeping your goals in mind and reminding yourself that you can work to repair damaged relationships and become more content with your life.
Symptoms for Narcissistic personality disorder :
Symptoms of narcissistic personality disorder and how severe they are can vary. People with the disorder can:
Have an unreasonably high sense of self-importance and require constant, excessive admiration.
Feel that they deserve privileges and special treatment.
Expect to be recognized as superior even without achievements.
Make achievements and talents seem bigger than they are.
Be preoccupied with fantasies about success, power, brilliance, beauty or the perfect mate.
Believe they are superior to others and can only spend time with or be understood by equally special people.
Be critical of and look down on people they feel are not important.
Expect special favors and expect other people to do what they want without questioning them.
Take advantage of others to get what they want.
Have an inability or unwillingness to recognize the needs and feelings of others.
Be envious of others and believe others envy them.
Behave in an arrogant way, brag a lot and come across as conceited.
Insist on having the best of everything — for instance, the best car or office.
At the same time, people with narcissistic personality disorder have trouble handling anything they view as criticism. They can:
Become impatient or angry when they don't receive special recognition or treatment.
Have major problems interacting with others and easily feel slighted.
React with rage or contempt and try to belittle other people to make themselves appear superior.
Have difficulty managing their emotions and behavior.
Experience major problems dealing with stress and adapting to change.
Withdraw from or avoid situations in which they might fail.
Feel depressed and moody because they fall short of perfection.
Have secret feelings of insecurity, shame, humiliation and fear of being exposed as a failure.
Causes for Narcissistic personality disorder :
It's not known what causes narcissistic personality disorder. The cause is likely complex. Narcissistic personality disorder may be linked to:
Environment — parent-child relationships with either too much adoration or too much criticism that don't match the child's actual experiences and achievements.
Genetics — inherited characteristics, such as certain personality traits.
Neurobiology — the connection between the brain and behavior and thinking.
Risk Factors for Narcissistic personality disorder:
Although the cause of narcissistic personality disorder isn't known, some researchers think that overprotective or neglectful parenting may have an impact on children who are born with a tendency to develop the disorder. Genetics and other factors also may play a role in the development of narcissistic personality disorder.
Complications for Narcissistic personality disorder:
Complications of narcissistic personality disorder, and other conditions that can occur along with it include:
Relationship difficulties
Problems at work or school
Depression and anxiety
Other personality disorders
An eating disorder called anorexia
Physical health problems
Drug or alcohol misuse
Suicidal thoughts or behavior
Preventions for Narcissistic personality disorder
Because the cause of narcissistic personality disorder is unknown, there's no known way to prevent the condition. But it may help to:
Get treatment as soon as possible for childhood mental health problems.
Participate in family therapy to learn healthy ways to communicate or to cope with conflicts or emotional distress.
Attend parenting classes and seek guidance from a therapist or social worker if needed.
Condition name:Narcolepsy
Overview of Narcolepsy:
Narcolepsy is a sleep disorder that makes people very drowsy during the day. People with narcolepsy find it hard to stay awake for long periods of time. They fall asleep suddenly. This can cause serious problems in their daily routine.
Sometimes narcolepsy also causes a sudden loss of muscle tone, known as cataplexy (KAT-uh-plek-see). This can be triggered by strong emotion, especially laughter. Narcolepsy is divided into two types. Most people with type 1 narcolepsy have cataplexy. Most people who don't have cataplexy have type 2 narcolepsy.
Narcolepsy is a life-long condition for which there's no cure. However, medicines and lifestyle changes can help manage the symptoms. Support from others — family, friends, employers and teachers — can help people cope with the disorder.
Home Remedies for Narcolepsy:
Lifestyle changes are important in managing the symptoms of narcolepsy. You may benefit if you:
Stick to a schedule. Go to sleep and wake up at the same time every day, including weekends.
Take naps. Schedule short naps at regular intervals during the day. Naps of 20 minutes during the day may be refreshing. They also may reduce sleepiness for 1 to 3 hours. Some people may need longer naps.
Avoid nicotine and alcohol. Using these substances, especially at night, can worsen your symptoms.
Get regular exercise. Plan for moderate, regular exercise at least 4 to 5 hours before bedtime. It may help you sleep better at night and feel more awake during the day.
Symptoms for Narcolepsy :
The symptoms of narcolepsy may get worse during the first few years of the disorder. Then they continue for life. They include:
Excessive daytime sleepiness. People with narcolepsy fall asleep without warning. It can happen anywhere and at any time. It may happen when you're bored or during a task. For example, you may be working or talking with friends and suddenly fall asleep. It can be especially dangerous if you fall asleep while driving. You might fall asleep for only a few minutes or up to a half-hour. After waking, you'll often feel refreshed but you'll get sleepy again.
You also may experience a decrease in how alert and focused you feel during the day. Daytime sleepiness often is the first symptom to appear. Feeling sleepy makes it hard to focus and function.
Some people with narcolepsy continue doing a task when they fall asleep briefly. For example, you may fall asleep while writing, typing or driving. You might continue to perform that task while asleep. When you awaken, you can't remember what you did, and you probably didn't do it well.
Sudden loss of muscle tone. This condition is called cataplexy. It can cause slurred speech or complete weakness of most muscles. Symptoms may last up to a few minutes.
Cataplexy can't be controlled. It's triggered by intense emotions. Often the emotions that cause cataplexy are positive. Laughter or excitement may cause the symptoms. But sometimes fear, surprise or anger can cause the loss of muscle tone. For example, when you laugh, your head may drop without your control. Or your knees may suddenly lose strength, causing you to fall.
Some people with narcolepsy experience only one or two episodes of cataplexy a year. Others have several episodes a day. Not everyone with narcolepsy has these symptoms.
Sleep paralysis. People with narcolepsy often experience sleep paralysis. During sleep paralysis, you can't move or speak while falling asleep or upon waking. It's usually brief — lasting a few seconds or minutes. But it can be scary. You may be aware of it happening and can recall it afterward.
Not everyone with sleep paralysis has narcolepsy.
Hallucinations. Sometimes people see things that aren't there during sleep paralysis. Hallucinations also may happen in bed without sleep paralysis. These are called hypnagogic hallucinations if they happen as you fall asleep. They're called hypnopompic hallucinations if they happen upon waking. For example, you might feel as if there is a stranger in your bedroom. These hallucinations may be vivid and frightening because you may not be fully asleep when you begin dreaming.
Changes in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. REM sleep is when most dreaming happens. Typically, people enter REM sleep 60 to 90 minutes after falling asleep. But people with narcolepsy often move more quickly to REM sleep. They tend to enter REM sleep within 15 minutes of falling asleep. REM sleep also can happen at any time of the day.
Causes for Narcolepsy :
The exact cause of narcolepsy is unknown. People with type 1 narcolepsy have low levels of hypocretin (hi-poe-KREE-tin), also called orexin. Hypocretin is a chemical in the brain that helps control being awake and when you enter REM sleep.
Hypocretin levels are low in people who experience cataplexy. Exactly what causes the loss of hypocretin-producing cells in the brain isn't known. But experts suspect it's due to an autoimmune reaction. An autoimmune reaction is when the body's immune system destroys its own cells.
It's also likely that genetics plays a role in narcolepsy. But the risk of a parent passing this disorder to a child is very low — only about 1% to 2%.
Research also indicates that in some cases narcolepsy may be linked to exposure to the swine flu (H1N1 flu) virus. It also may be linked to a certain form of the H1N1 vaccine. The vaccine was administered in Europe.
Risk Factors for Narcolepsy:
There are only a few known risk factors for narcolepsy, including:
Age. Narcolepsy typically begins between ages 10 and 30.
Family history. Your risk of narcolepsy is 20 to 40 times higher if you have a close family member who has it.
Complications for Narcolepsy:
Public misconception of the condition. Narcolepsy can cause problems at work or in your personal life. Your performance may suffer at school or work. Others might see people with narcolepsy as lazy or lethargic.
Effects on intimate relationships. Intense feelings, such as anger or joy, can trigger cataplexy. This can cause people with narcolepsy to withdraw from emotional interactions.
Physical harm. Falling asleep suddenly may result in injury. You're at increased risk of a car accident if you fall asleep while driving. Your risk of cuts and burns is greater if you fall asleep while cooking.
Obesity. People with narcolepsy are more likely to be overweight. Sometimes weight rapidly increases when sleepiness symptoms start.
There are no preventive measures available for Narcolepsy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nasal and paranasal tumors
Overview of Nasal and paranasal tumors:
Nasal and paranasal tumors are growths that begin in and around the passageway within the nose. Nasal tumors begin in the main passageway within the nose, called the nasal cavity. Paranasal tumors begin in air-filled chambers around the nose, called the paranasal sinuses.
Some nasal and paranasal tumors aren't cancerous. These noncancerous tumors also are called benign tumors. They can grow to block the flow of air through the nose.
Other nasal and paranasal tumors are cancers. Cancerous tumors also are called malignant tumors. They can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Several types of nasal and paranasal tumors exist. The type of tumor you have helps determine the best treatment for you.
There are no home remedies available for Nasal and paranasal tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Nasal and paranasal tumors :
Signs and symptoms of nasal and paranasal tumors can include:
Difficulty breathing through the nose.
Frequent headaches.
Loss of the sense of smell.
Nosebleeds.
Discharge from the nose.
Facial swelling or pain.
Watery eyes.
A sore on the roof of the mouth.
Vision problems.
A lump in the neck.
Difficulty opening the mouth.
Causes for Nasal and paranasal tumors :
Nasal and paranasal tumors happen when cells in the nasal cavity or chambers around the nose develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions also tell the cells to die at a set time. In tumor cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the tumor cells to make many more cells quickly. Tumor cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
Sometimes the changes in the DNA turn the cells into cancer cells. Cancer cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Nasal and paranasal tumors:
Factors that may increase the risk of nasal and paranasal tumors include:
Smoking tobacco increases the risk. This includes cigarettes, cigars and pipes.
Being exposed to air pollution. Breathing in polluted air increases the risk of nasal and paranasal tumors.
Being exposed to chemicals and irritants in the air at work. These may include wood dust, fumes from glue, rubbing alcohol and formaldehyde, and dust from flour, chromium and nickel.
Being exposed to human papillomavirus, also called HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, it causes no problems and goes away on its own. For others, it causes changes in cells that can lead to many types of cancer.
There are no Complications available for Nasal and paranasal tumors in the knowledge basePreventions for Nasal and paranasal tumors
To reduce your risk of nasal and paranasal tumors, you can:
Stop smoking. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. If you currently use tobacco of any kind, talk with a healthcare professional about strategies to help you quit.
Protect yourself at work. Follow your workplace safety rules for protecting yourself from harmful fumes and irritants in the air, such as wearing a face mask.
Ask about the HPV vaccine. Receiving a vaccination to prevent HPV infection may reduce your risk of HPV-related cancers. Ask your doctor or other healthcare professional whether an HPV vaccine is right for you.
Condition name:Nasal polyps
Overview of Nasal polyps:
Nasal polyps are painless growths inside the nose or the hollow areas inside the bones of the face, also known as sinuses. Nasal polyps aren't cancer.
Small nasal polyps might not cause symptoms. Larger growths or groups of nasal polyps can block the nose. They can lead to breathing problems, not being able to smell and infections.
Nasal polyps can affect anyone. But they're more common in young and middle-aged adults. Medicines can often shrink nasal polyps or get rid of them. But surgery might be needed to remove them. Even after treatment, nasal polyps often come back.
There are no home remedies available for Nasal polyps in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Nasal polyps :
Nasal polyps are linked to irritation and swelling, also called inflammation, of the inside of the nose and sinuses that lasts more than 12 weeks. This is known as chronic sinusitis. But it's possible to have chronic sinusitis without getting nasal polyps.
People who have small nasal polyps might not know they have them. But having more than one polyp or having a large polyp can block the nose.
Common symptoms of chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps include:
Runny, stuffy nose.
Mucus running down the throat, also known as postnasal drip.
Not being able to smell.
Not being able to taste.
Facial pain or headache.
Pain in the teeth.
A sense of pressure over the forehead and face.
Snoring.
Causes for Nasal polyps :
Experts don't know what causes nasal polyps. They don't know why some people get nasal polyps and others don't.
Risk Factors for Nasal polyps:
Infections, allergies or any condition that causes long-term inflammation in the nose or sinuses can increase the risk of having nasal polyps.
Conditions often linked to nasal polyps include:
Asthma.
Aspirin sensitivity.
Cystic fibrosis.
Dental infections.
Lack of vitamin D.
Having a family history of nasal polyps also might increase the risk.
Complications for Nasal polyps:
One of the most common complications of chronic sinusitis with nasal polyps is making asthma worse.
Preventions for Nasal polyps
The following might help lower the chances of getting nasal polyps or having nasal polyps come back after treatment:
Manage allergies and asthma. Follow your treatment plan. Be sure symptoms are controlled. See your health care provider if they're not.
Avoid things that can irritate the nose. These include tobacco smoke, chemical fumes and dust. If you smoke, talk to your health care provider about ways to quit.
Wash your hands often and well. This is one of the best ways to protect against infections that can cause irritation and swelling of the nose and sinuses.
Use a machine that adds moisture to the air, known as a humidifier. This might help prevent the nose from getting stuffy and irritated. Clean the humidifier as directed to keep bacteria from growing.
Use a nasal rinse. Rinsing the inside of the nose with a saltwater spray or nasal wash might help remove what irritates it.
You can buy saltwater sprays and nasal wash kits without a prescription. Nasal wash kits come with a neti pot or squeeze bottle and directions for how to use them.
Use water that's distilled or sterile or has been boiled for one minute and cooled. The water can also be filtered using a filter with an absolute pore size of 1 micron or smaller. Rinse the pot or bottle after each use with the distilled, sterile, previously boiled or filtered water and leave it open to dry.
Condition name:Nasopharyngeal carcinoma
Overview of Nasopharyngeal carcinoma:
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the nasopharynx. The nasopharynx is the upper part of the throat. It sits behind the nose.
Nasopharyngeal (nay-zoh-fuh-RIN-jee-ul) carcinoma is rare in the United States. It happens much more often in other parts of the world, mainly Southeast Asia.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is hard to find early. That's most likely because the nasopharynx isn't easy to examine. And there may be no symptoms at first.
Treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma usually involves radiation therapy, chemotherapy or a mix of the two. Work with your healthcare professional to find the approach that's right for you.
Home Remedies for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma:
Coping with dry mouth
Radiation therapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma often causes dry mouth. Dry mouth may last a long time after treatment. For some people, it doesn't go away.
Dry mouth can cause discomfort. It also can lead to infections in your mouth. It can make it hard to eat, swallow and speak. And it can affect the health of your teeth. Ask your healthcare professional about seeing a dentist if you have dry mouth complications.
To help ease dry mouth and its complications:
Brush your teeth a few times each day. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush. Brush gently. Tell your healthcare team if gentle brushing hurts your mouth.
Rinse your mouth with a solution after meals. Ask your healthcare team what solution to use.
Keep your mouth moist with water or sugarless candies. Drink water throughout the day to keep your mouth moist. Also try ice chips, sugarless gum or sugarless candies to help your mouth make saliva.
Choose moist foods. Don't eat dry foods. Moisten food with sauce, gravy, broth, butter or milk.
Don't eat acidic or spicy foods and drinks. Choose foods and drinks that won't irritate your mouth. Don't drink caffeinated and alcoholic beverages.
Tell your healthcare team if you have dry mouth. There may be treatments to help you cope with more-severe symptoms of dry mouth. Your healthcare team also may send you to an expert in nutrition, called a dietitian. A dietitian can help you find foods that are easier to eat with dry mouth.
Symptoms for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma :
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma may not cause signs or symptoms at first. When it does cause symptoms, they might include:
A lump in your neck caused by a swollen lymph node.
Bleeding from the nose.
Bloody saliva.
Double vision.
Ear infections.
Facial numbness.
Headaches.
Hearing loss.
Nasal stuffiness.
Ringing in the ears, called tinnitus.
Sore throat.
Causes for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma :
The exact cause of nasopharyngeal carcinoma often isn't known.
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is a kind of cancer that starts in the upper part of the throat, called the nasopharynx. It happens when cells in the nasopharynx develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell cells to die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a growth called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma:
Researchers have found some factors that seem to raise the risk of getting nasopharyngeal carcinoma. They include:
Certain ancestries. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is more common in parts of China, Southeast Asia, northern Africa and the Arctic. People who live in these areas or have ancestry that comes from these parts of the world may have an increased risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Middle age. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma can occur at any age. But most often it's diagnosed in adults between the ages of 30 and 60.
Salt-cured foods. Chemicals released in steam when cooking salt-cured foods might raise the risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma. The steam from foods such as fish and preserved vegetables may enter the nose during cooking. Contact with these chemicals at an early age may raise the risk even more.
Epstein-Barr virus. This common virus most often causes mild symptoms like those of a cold. Sometimes it can cause infectious mononucleosis. The Epstein-Barr virus also is linked to some cancers, including nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Family history. Having a family member with nasopharyngeal carcinoma raises the risk of the disease.
Alcohol and tobacco. Heavy alcohol intake and tobacco use can raise your risk of nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Complications for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma:
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma complications can include:
Cancer that grows into nearby structures. Advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma can grow large enough to go into nearby structures, such as the throat, bones and brain.
Cancer that spreads to other areas of the body. Nasopharyngeal carcinoma often spreads beyond the nasopharynx. It typically spreads to the lymph nodes in the neck first. When it spreads to other parts of the body, nasopharyngeal carcinoma most often goes to the bones, lungs and liver.
Preventions for Nasopharyngeal carcinoma
There's no sure way to prevent nasopharyngeal carcinoma. But, if you're worried about your risk of this cancer, think about giving up habits that have been linked with the disease. For instance, don't use tobacco. You may choose to cut back on or not eat salt-cured foods.
Condition name:Nearsightedness
Overview of Nearsightedness:
Nearsightedness is a common vision condition in which close objects look clear but far objects look blurry. The medical term for nearsightedness is myopia. Myopia happens when the shape of the eye — or the shape of certain parts of the eye — causes light rays to bend or refract. Light rays that should be focused on nerve tissues at the back of the eye, called the retina, are focused in front of the retina instead.
Nearsightedness usually develops during childhood and adolescence. Typically, it becomes more stable between the ages of 20 and 40. It tends to run in families.
A basic eye exam can confirm nearsightedness. You can correct the blurry vision with eyeglasses, contact lenses or refractive surgery.
Home Remedies for Nearsightedness:
Steps you can take to promote good eye health and vision include the following:
Get regular eye exams.
Protect your eyes from the sun.
Wear protective eyewear during sports or work that can result in eye injuries.
Use good lighting when reading and working.
Wear prescription corrective lenses as directed.
Care for prescription glasses or contact lenses as directed.
Rest your eyes from computer or other close-up work every 20 minutes by looking at something 20 feet away for 20 seconds.
Eat healthy foods.
Get regular exercise.
Control health conditions, such as high blood pressure or diabetes, that can affect your vision.
Don't smoke.
Symptoms for Nearsightedness :
Nearsightedness symptoms may include:
Blurry vision when looking at distant objects.
The need to squint or partially close the eyelids to see clearly.
Headaches.
Eyestrain.
School-age children may have difficulty seeing things on whiteboards or screen projections in the classroom. Younger children might not express difficulty seeing, but they may have the following behaviors that suggest difficulty seeing:
Constant squinting.
Seeming to not be aware of distant objects.
Blinking often.
Rubbing the eyes often.
Sitting close to the television or moving screens closer to the face.
Adults with nearsightedness may notice difficulty reading street signs or signs in stores. Some people may experience blurry vision in dim light, as with nighttime driving, even if they see clearly in daylight. This condition is called night myopia.
Causes for Nearsightedness :
The eye has two parts that focus images:
The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped front surface of the eye.
The lens is a clear structure about the size and shape of a pinto bean.
For you to see, light has to pass through the cornea and lens. These parts of the eye bend — also called refract — the light so that the light is focused directly on the retina at the back of your eye. These tissues translate light into signals sent to the brain, which lets you perceive images.
Risk Factors for Nearsightedness:
Certain risk factors may increase the likelihood of developing nearsightedness, including:
Genetics. Nearsightedness tends to run in families. If one of your parents is nearsighted, your risk of developing the condition is increased. The risk is higher if both parents are nearsighted.
Prolonged close-up activities. Reading or doing other close-up activities for a long time is associated with an increased risk of nearsightedness.
Screen time. Studies have shown that children who use computers or smart devices for long periods have a greater risk of developing nearsightedness.
Environmental conditions. Some studies support the idea that not spending enough time outdoors may increase the risk of nearsightedness.
Complications for Nearsightedness:
Nearsightedness is associated with a variety of complications, such as:
Poor school experiences. Children with myopia or other vision problems can experience delays in reading or other academic skills, difficulty with social interactions, and poor self-esteem.
Reduced quality of life. If nearsightedness isn't corrected, it can prevent you from performing daily tasks well or enjoying activities.
Eyestrain. Not correcting nearsightedness may cause persistent eyestrain and headaches.
Impaired safety. Your safety and the safety of others may be jeopardized if you have a vision problem. This could be especially serious if you are driving a car or operating heavy equipment.
Other eye problems. Severe nearsightedness puts you at an increased risk of retinal detachment, glaucoma, cataracts and other serious eye conditions.
There are no preventive measures available for Nearsightedness in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neck pain
Overview of Neck pain:
Neck pain is common. Poor posture — whether from leaning over a computer or hunching over a workbench — strains neck muscles. Osteoarthritis also is a common cause of neck pain.
Rarely, neck pain can be a symptom of a more serious problem. Seek medical care for neck pain with numbness or loss of strength in the arms or hands or for pain that shoots into a shoulder or down an arm.
Home Remedies for Neck pain:
Besides taking pain relievers, self-care measures that might relieve neck pain include:
Alternate heat and cold. Reduce inflammation by applying cold, such as an ice pack or ice wrapped in a towel, for up to 15 minutes several times a day during the first 48 hours. After that, use heat. Try taking a warm shower or using a heating pad on the low setting.
Home exercises. Keeping the neck moving is important. Begin daily gentle stretching, including neck rolls and shoulder rolls, once the worst of the pain lessens. Gently tilt, bend and rotate the neck. Warm the neck and back with a heating pad or in the shower or bath before doing these exercises.
Symptoms for Neck pain :
Symptoms include:
Pain that's often worsened by holding the head in one place for long periods, such as when driving or working at a computer
Muscle tightness and spasms
Decreased ability to move the head
Headache
Causes for Neck pain :
Because the neck supports the weight of the head, it can be at risk of injuries and conditions that cause pain and restrict motion. Neck pain causes include:
Muscle strains. Overuse, such as too many hours hunched over a computer or a smartphone, often triggers muscle strains. Even minor things, such as reading in bed, can strain neck muscles.
Worn joints. As with other joints in the body, neck joints tend to wear with age. In response to this wear and tear, the body often forms bone spurs that can affect joint motion and cause pain.
Nerve compression. Herniated disks or bone spurs in the vertebrae of the neck can press on the nerves branching out from the spinal cord.
Injuries. Rear-end auto collisions often result in whiplash injury. This occurs when the head jerks backward and then forward, straining the soft tissues of the neck.
Diseases. Certain diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, meningitis or cancer, can cause neck pain.
There are no Risk Factors available for Neck pain in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Neck pain in the knowledge basePreventions for Neck pain
Most neck pain is associated with poor posture combined with age-related wear and tear. To help prevent neck pain, keep your head centered over your spine. Some simple changes in your daily routine may help. Consider trying to:
Use good posture. When standing and sitting, be sure your shoulders are in a straight line over your hips and your ears are directly over your shoulders. When using cell phones, tablets and other small screens, keep your head up and hold the device straight out rather than bending your neck to look down at the device.
Take frequent breaks. If you travel long distances or work long hours at your computer, get up, move around, and stretch your neck and shoulders.
Adjust your desk, chair and computer so that the monitor is at eye level. Knees should be slightly lower than hips. Use your chair's armrests.
If you smoke, quit. Smoking can increase the risk of developing neck pain.
Avoid carrying heavy bags with straps over your shoulder. The weight can strain your neck.
Sleep in a healthy position. Your head and neck should be aligned with your body. Use a small pillow under your neck. Try sleeping on your back with your thighs elevated on pillows, which will flatten your spinal muscles.
Stay active. If you don't move much, increase your activity level.
Condition name:Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis
Overview of Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis:
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis is a rare disease that occurs mainly in people with advanced kidney failure with or without dialysis. Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis may resemble skin diseases, such as scleroderma and scleromyxedema, with thickening and darkening developing on large areas of the skin.
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis can also affect internal organs, such as the heart and lungs, and it can cause a disabling shortening of muscles and tendons in the joints (joint contracture).
For some people with advanced kidney disease, being exposed to older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1) during magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and other imaging studies has been identified as a trigger for development of this disease. Recognition of this link has dramatically reduced the incidence of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. Newer gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 2) are not associated with an increased risk of systemic nephrogenic fibrosis.
There are no home remedies available for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis :
Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis can begin days to months, and even years, after exposure to an older gadolinium-based contrast agent (group 1). Some signs and symptoms of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis may include:
Swelling and tightening of the skin
Reddened or darkened patches on the skin
Thickening and hardening of the skin, typically on the arms and legs and sometimes on the body, but almost never on the face or head
Skin that may feel "woody" and develop an orange-peel appearance
Burning, itching or severe sharp pains in areas of involvement
Skin thickening that inhibits movement, resulting in loss of joint flexibility
Rarely, blisters or ulcers
In some people, involvement of muscles and body organs may cause:
Muscle weakness
Limitation of joint motion caused by muscle tightening (contractures) in arms, hands, legs and feet
Bone pain, particularly in the hip bones or ribs
Reduced internal organ function, including heart, lung, diaphragm, gastrointestinal tract or liver
Yellow plaques on the white surface (sclera) of the eyes
The condition is generally long term (chronic), but some people may improve. In a few people, it can cause severe disability, even death.
Causes for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis :
The exact cause of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis isn't fully understood. Fibrous connective tissue forms in the skin and connective tissues, resulting in scarring of tissue throughout the body, most commonly the skin and subcutaneous tissues.
Exposure to older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1) during magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been identified as a trigger for development of this disease in people with kidney disease. This increased risk is thought to be related to the kidneys' reduced ability to remove the contrast agent from the bloodstream.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends avoiding older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1) in people with acute kidney injury or chronic kidney disease.
Other conditions may increase the risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis when combined with existing kidney disease and exposure to older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1), but the link is uncertain. These include:
Use of high-dose erythropoietin (EPO), a hormone that promotes the production of red blood cells, often used to treat anemia
Recent vascular surgery
Blood-clotting problems
Severe infection
Risk Factors for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis:
The highest risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis after exposure to older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1) occurs in people who:
Have moderate to severe kidney disease
Have had a kidney transplant but have compromised renal function
Are receiving hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis
Have acute kidney injury
There are no Complications available for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis in the knowledge basePreventions for Nephrogenic systemic fibrosis
Avoidance of older gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 1) is key to preventing nephrogenic systemic fibrosis, as newer gadolinium-based contrast agents (group 2) are safer and are not associated with increased risk.
Condition name:Neuroblastoma
Overview of Neuroblastoma:
Neuroblastoma is a cancer that develops from immature nerve cells found in several areas of the body.
Neuroblastoma most commonly arises in and around the adrenal glands, which have similar origins to nerve cells and sit atop the kidneys. However, neuroblastoma can also develop in other areas of the abdomen and in the chest, neck and near the spine, where groups of nerve cells exist.
Neuroblastoma most commonly affects children age 5 or younger, though it may rarely occur in older children.
Some forms of neuroblastoma go away on their own, while others may require multiple treatments. Your child's neuroblastoma treatment options will depend on several factors.
There are no home remedies available for Neuroblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Neuroblastoma :
Signs and symptoms of neuroblastoma vary depending on what part of the body is affected.
Neuroblastoma in the abdomen — the most common form — may cause signs and symptoms such as:
Abdominal pain
A mass under the skin that isn't tender when touched
Changes in bowel habits, such as diarrhea or constipation
Neuroblastoma in the chest may cause signs and symptoms such as:
Wheezing
Chest pain
Changes to the eyes, including drooping eyelids and unequal pupil size
Other signs and symptoms that may indicate neuroblastoma include:
Lumps of tissue under the skin
Eyeballs that seem to protrude from the sockets (proptosis)
Dark circles, similar to bruises, around the eyes
Back pain
Fever
Unexplained weight loss
Bone pain
Causes for Neuroblastoma :
In general, cancer begins with a genetic mutation that allows normal, healthy cells to continue growing without responding to the signals to stop, which normal cells do. Cancer cells grow and multiply out of control. The accumulating abnormal cells form a mass (tumor).
Neuroblastoma begins in neuroblasts — immature nerve cells that a fetus makes as part of its development process.
As the fetus matures, neuroblasts eventually turn into nerve cells and fibers and the cells that make up the adrenal glands. Most neuroblasts mature by birth, though a small number of immature neuroblasts can be found in newborns. In most cases, these neuroblasts mature or disappear. Others, however, form a tumor — a neuroblastoma.
It isn't clear what causes the initial genetic mutation that leads to neuroblastoma.
Risk Factors for Neuroblastoma:
Children with a family history of neuroblastoma may be more likely to develop the disease. Yet, familial neuroblastoma is thought to comprise a very small number of neuroblastoma cases. In most cases of neuroblastoma, a cause is never identified.
Complications for Neuroblastoma:
Complications of neuroblastoma may include:
Spread of the cancer (metastasis). Neuroblastoma may spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body, such as the lymph nodes, bone marrow, liver, skin and bones.
Spinal cord compression. Tumors may grow and press on the spinal cord, causing spinal cord compression. Spinal cord compression may cause pain and paralysis.
Signs and symptoms caused by tumor secretions. Neuroblastoma cells may secrete certain chemicals that irritate other normal tissues, causing signs and symptoms called paraneoplastic syndromes. One paraneoplastic syndrome that occurs rarely in people with neuroblastoma causes rapid eye movements and difficulty with coordination. Another rare syndrome causes abdominal swelling and diarrhea.
There are no preventive measures available for Neuroblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neurodermatitis
Overview of Neurodermatitis:
Neurodermatitis is a skin condition that starts with an itchy patch of skin. Scratching makes it itch more. With more scratching, the skin becomes thick and leathery. You may develop several itchy spots, typically on the neck, wrists, forearms, legs or groin area.
Neurodermatitis — also known as lichen simplex chronicus — is not life-threatening or contagious. But the itching can be so intense it disrupts your sleep, sexual function and quality of life.
Breaking the itch-scratch cycle of neurodermatitis is challenging, and neurodermatitis is usually a long-term condition. It may clear up with treatment but often returns. Treatment focuses on controlling the itching and preventing scratching. It also may help to identify and eliminate factors that worsen your symptoms, such as dry skin.
Home Remedies for Neurodermatitis:
These self-care measures can help you manage neurodermatitis:
Stop rubbing and scratching. The itching may be intense, but avoiding rubbing and scratching is key to controlling your condition and preventing the itch from coming back.
Apply cool, wet cloths. These may soothe the skin and relieve the itch. Put a cool, wet cloth on the affected skin for a few minutes before you apply a medicated cream. This helps the cream soak into the skin.
Try cooling lotions. Apply calamine lotion or a lotion that contains camphor or menthol.
Try nonprescription medications. Apply an anti-itch cream or lotion to the affected area. Do this three times a day for two days. A hydrocortisone cream can temporarily relieve the itch. If you keep the cream in the refrigerator, it's cool and soothing when you use it. Or try a nonsteroidal cream with menthol or pramoxine (CeraVe, Sarna, others) to help ease the itch.
An oral antihistamine, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), can relieve severe itching and help you sleep. Some people have success with capsaicin cream, but it may sting at first.
Cover the affected area. Bandages or dressings can help protect the skin and prevent scratching. These may be especially useful if you scratch during your sleep.
Keep your nails trimmed. Short nails may do less damage to the skin, especially if you tend to scratch while you're asleep. You might try wearing mittens when you sleep too.
Take short, warm baths and moisturize your skin. Prepare your bath with warm â€” not hot â€” water. Sprinkle in an oatmeal-based, also called colloidal, bath product (Aveeno). Use mild soaps without dyes or perfumes. Limit bathing time and frequency. Ideally, shower or bathe no more than once a day, and try to limit the shower or bath to 10 minutes or less.
After washing, pat your skin dry and apply unscented moisturizer.
Avoid triggers. Notice what seems to bring on a recurrence and avoid it. For example, if a stressful event triggered itching, try learning stress management techniques.
Symptoms for Neurodermatitis :
Symptoms of neurodermatitis include:
An itchy, scaly skin patch or patches
Open sores that bleed
Thick, leathery skin
Discolored, wrinkled genital skin
Raised, rough patches that are inflamed or darker than the rest of the skin
The condition involves areas that can be reached for scratching — the scalp, neck, wrists, forearms, ankles, vulva, scrotum and anus. The itchiness, which can be intense, may come and go or be nonstop. You may scratch your skin out of habit and while sleeping.
Causes for Neurodermatitis :
The exact cause of neurodermatitis isn't known. It can be triggered by something that irritates the skin, such as tight clothing or a bug bite. The more you scratch, the more it itches.
Sometimes, neurodermatitis goes along with other skin conditions, such as dry skin, atopic dermatitis or psoriasis. Stress and anxiety also can trigger itching.
Risk Factors for Neurodermatitis:
Factors that can increase the risk of neurodermatitis include:
Age. The condition is most common among people between 30 and 50 years of age.
Other skin conditions. People who have or had other skin conditions, such as atopic dermatitis or psoriasis, are more likely to develop neurodermatitis.
Family history. People whose blood relatives have or had hay fever, childhood eczema or asthma may be more likely to develop neurodermatitis.
Anxiety disorders. Anxiety and emotional stress can trigger neurodermatitis.
Complications for Neurodermatitis:
Persistent scratching can lead to a wound, a bacterial skin infection, or permanent scars and changes in skin color (postinflammatory hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation). The itch of neurodermatitis can affect your sleep, sexual function and quality of life.
There are no preventive measures available for Neurodermatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neuroendocrine tumors
Overview of Neuroendocrine tumors:
Neuroendocrine tumors are cancers that begin in specialized cells called neuroendocrine cells. Neuroendocrine cells have traits similar to those of nerve cells and hormone-producing cells.
Neuroendocrine tumors are rare and can occur anywhere in the body. Most neuroendocrine tumors occur in the lungs, appendix, small intestine, rectum and pancreas.
There are many types of neuroendocrine tumors. Some grow slowly and some grow very quickly. Some neuroendocrine tumors produce excess hormones (functional neuroendocrine tumors). Others don't release hormones or don't release enough to cause symptoms (nonfunctional neuroendocrine tumors).
Diagnosis and treatment of neuroendocrine tumors depend on the type of tumor, its location, whether it produces excess hormones, how aggressive it is and whether it has spread to other parts of the body.
There are no home remedies available for Neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Neuroendocrine tumors :
Neuroendocrine tumors don't always cause signs and symptoms at first. The symptoms you might experience depend on the location of your tumor and whether it produces excess hormones.
In general, neuroendocrine tumor signs and symptoms might include:
Pain from a growing tumor
A growing lump you can feel under the skin
Feeling unusually tired
Losing weight without trying
Neuroendocrine tumors that produce excess hormones (functional tumors) might cause:
Skin flushing
Diarrhea
Frequent urination
Increased thirst
Dizziness
Shakiness
Skin rash
Causes for Neuroendocrine tumors :
The exact cause of neuroendocrine tumors isn't known. These cancers begin in neuroendocrine cells that have traits similar to those of nerve cells and hormone-producing cells. Neuroendocrine cells are found throughout your body.
Neuroendocrine tumors begin when neuroendocrine cells develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. The DNA inside a cell contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the neuroendocrine cells to multiply rapidly and form a tumor.
Some neuroendocrine tumors grow very slowly. Others are aggressive cancers that invade and destroy normal body tissue or spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Neuroendocrine tumors:
The risk of neuroendocrine tumors is higher in people who inherit genetic syndromes that increase the risk of cancer. Examples include:
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1)
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2)
Von Hippel-Lindau disease
Tuberous sclerosis
Neurofibromatosis
There are no Complications available for Neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neurofibroma
Overview of Neurofibroma:
A neurofibroma is a type of peripheral nerve tumor that forms a soft bump on or under the skin. The tumor can develop within a major or minor nerve anywhere in the body.
This common type of nerve tumor tends to form centrally within the nerve. A neurofibroma forms on the protective covering of the nerve, known as the nerve sheath. Sometimes it grows on several nerve bundles. When this happens, it's called a plexiform neurofibroma.
A neurofibroma may cause mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. If the tumor presses against nerves or grows within them, it may cause pain or numbness.
A neurofibroma usually isn't cancer. Rarely, it can become cancer.
There are no home remedies available for Neurofibroma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Neurofibroma :
A neurofibroma might cause no symptoms. If symptoms occur, they're usually mild. When a neurofibroma grows on or under the skin, symptoms may include:
A bump on the skin. The bump may be the color of your skin or pink or tan.
Pain.
Bleeding.
If a neurofibroma becomes large or presses against or grows on a nerve, symptoms may include:
Pain.
Tingling.
Numbness or weakness.
Change in appearance when a large neurofibroma is on the face.
Some people with neurofibromas have a genetic condition known as neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). A person with NF1 may have many neurofibromas. The number of neurofibromas increases with age.
A tumor that involves many nerves, known as a plexiform neurofibroma, can occur in a person with NF1. This type of neurofibroma can grow large and cause pain. It also can become cancerous.
Causes for Neurofibroma :
A neurofibroma can arise with no known cause, or it may appear in people with a genetic condition called neurofibromatosis type 1. Neurofibromas most often are found in people ages 20 to 30 years old.
Risk Factors for Neurofibroma:
The only known risk factor for neurofibromas is having the genetic condition known as neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1). People with NF1 have several neurofibromas, along with other symptoms. In about half of the people with NF1, the disease was passed down from a parent. However, most people with neurofibromas don't have NF1.
There are no Complications available for Neurofibroma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Neurofibroma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neurofibromatosis type 1
Overview of Neurofibromatosis type 1:
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic condition that causes changes in skin pigment and tumors on nerve tissue. Skin changes include flat, light brown spots and freckles in the armpits and groin. Tumors can grow anywhere in the nervous system, including the brain, spinal cord and nerves. NF1 is rare. About 1 in 2,500 is affected by NF1.
The tumors often are not cancerous, known as benign tumors. But sometimes they can become cancerous. Symptoms often are mild. But complications can occur and may include trouble with learning, heart and blood vessel conditions, vision loss, and pain.
Treatment focuses on supporting healthy growth and development in children and early management of complications. If NF1 causes large tumors or tumors that press on a nerve, surgery can reduce symptoms. A newer medicine is available to treat tumors in children, and other new treatments are being developed.
There are no home remedies available for Neurofibromatosis type 1 in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Neurofibromatosis type 1 :
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) usually is diagnosed during childhood. Symptoms are seen at birth or shortly afterward and almost always by age 10. Symptoms tend to be mild to moderate, but they can vary from person to person.
Symptoms include:
Flat, light brown spots on the skin, known as cafe au lait spots. These harmless spots are common in many people. But having more than six cafe au lait spots suggests NF1. They often are present at birth or appear during the first years of life. After childhood, new spots stop appearing.
Freckling in the armpits or groin area. Freckling often appears by ages 3 to 5. Freckles are smaller than cafe au lait spots and tend to occur in clusters in skin folds.
Tiny bumps on the iris of the eye, known as Lisch nodules. These nodules can't easily be seen and don't affect vision.
Soft, pea-sized bumps on or under the skin called neurofibromas. These benign tumors usually grow in or under the skin but can also grow inside the body. A growth that involves many nerves is called a plexiform neurofibroma. Plexiform neurofibromas, when located on the face, can cause disfigurement. Neurofibromas may increase in number with age.
Bone changes. Changes in bone development and low bone mineral density can cause bones to form in an irregular way. People with NF1 may have a curved spine, known as scoliosis, or a bowed lower leg.
Tumor on the nerve that connects the eye to the brain, called an optic pathway glioma. This tumor usually appears by age 3. The tumor rarely appears in late childhood and among teenagers, and almost never in adults.
Learning disabilities. It's common for children with NF1 to have some trouble with learning. Often there is a specific learning disability, such as trouble with reading or math. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and speech delay also are common.
Larger than average head size. Children with NF1 tend to have a larger than average head size due to increased brain volume.
Short stature. Children who have NF1 often are below average in height.
Causes for Neurofibromatosis type 1 :
Neurofibromatosis type 1 is caused by an altered gene that either is passed down by a parent or occurs at conception.
The NF1 gene is located on chromosome 17. This gene produces a protein called neurofibromin that helps regulate cell growth. When the gene is altered, it causes a loss of neurofibromin. This allows cells to grow without control.
Risk Factors for Neurofibromatosis type 1:
The biggest risk factor for neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a family history. For about half of people who have NF1, the disease was passed down from a parent. People who have NF1 and whose relatives aren't affected are likely to have a new change to a gene.
NF1 has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. This means that any child of a parent who is affected by the disease has a 50% chance of having the altered gene.
Complications for Neurofibromatosis type 1:
Complications of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) vary, even within the same family. Generally, complications occur when tumors affect nerve tissue or press on internal organs.
Complications of NF1 include:
Neurological symptoms. Trouble with learning and thinking are the most common neurological symptoms associated with NF1. Less common complications include epilepsy and the buildup of excess fluid in the brain.
Concerns with appearance. Visible signs of NF1 can include widespread cafe au lait spots, many neurofibromas in the facial area or large neurofibromas. In some people this can cause anxiety and emotional distress, even if they're not medically serious.
Skeletal symptoms. Some children have bones that didn't form as usual. This can cause bowing of the legs and fractures that sometimes don't heal. NF1 can cause curvature of the spine, known as scoliosis, that may need bracing or surgery. NF1 also is associated with lower bone mineral density, which increases the risk of weak bones, known as osteoporosis.
Changes in vision. Sometimes a tumor called an optic pathway glioma develops on the optic nerve. When this happens, it can affect vision.
Increase in symptoms during times of hormonal change. Hormonal changes associated with puberty or pregnancy might cause an increase in neurofibromas. Most people who have NF1 have healthy pregnancies but will likely need monitoring by an obstetrician who is familiar with NF1.
Cardiovascular symptoms. People who have NF1 have an increased risk of high blood pressure and may develop blood vessel conditions.
Trouble breathing. Rarely, plexiform neurofibromas can put pressure on the airway.
Cancer. Some people who have NF1 develop cancerous tumors. These usually arise from neurofibromas under the skin or from plexiform neurofibromas. People who have NF1 also have a higher risk of other forms of cancer. They include breast cancer, leukemia, colorectal cancer, brain tumors and some types of soft tissue cancer. Screening for breast cancer should begin earlier, at age 30, for women with NF1 compared to the general population.
Benign adrenal gland tumor, known as a pheochromocytoma. This noncancerous tumor produces hormones that raise your blood pressure. Surgery often is needed to remove it.
There are no preventive measures available for Neurofibromatosis type 1 in the knowledge baseCondition name:Neuromyelitis optica
Overview of Neuromyelitis optica:
Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) is a central nervous system disorder that causes inflammation in nerves of the eye and the spinal cord.
NMO is also called neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) and Devic disease. It occurs when the body's immune system reacts against its own cells. This happens mainly in the optic nerves that connect the retina of the eye with the brain and in the spinal cord. But it sometimes occurs in the brain.
The disorder may appear after an infection. Or it can be associated with another autoimmune condition. Irregular antibodies bind to proteins in the central nervous system and cause damage.
Neuromyelitis optica is often misdiagnosed as multiple sclerosis (MS) or seen as a type of MS. But NMO is a different condition.
Neuromyelitis optica can cause blindness in one or both eyes, weakness or paralysis in the legs or arms, and painful spasms. It also can cause loss of sensation, uncontrollable vomiting and hiccups, and bladder or bowel problems from spinal cord damage. Children can have confusion, seizures or comas.
Relapses are common. Preventing recurrent attacks is a key to averting disability. Neuromyelitis optica flare-ups might be reversible, but they can be severe enough to cause permanent visual loss and problems with walking.
There are no home remedies available for Neuromyelitis optica in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Neuromyelitis optica :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Neuromyelitis optica in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Neuromyelitis optica in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Neuromyelitis optica in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Neuromyelitis optica in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nicotine dependence
Overview of Nicotine dependence:
Nicotine dependence occurs when you need nicotine and can't stop using it. Nicotine is the chemical in tobacco that makes it hard to quit. Nicotine produces pleasing effects in your brain, but these effects are temporary. So you reach for another cigarette.
The more you smoke, the more nicotine you need to feel good. When you try to stop, you experience unpleasant mental and physical changes. These are symptoms of nicotine withdrawal.
Regardless of how long you've smoked, stopping can improve your health. It isn't easy but you can break your dependence on nicotine. Many effective treatments are available. Ask your doctor for help.
There are no home remedies available for Nicotine dependence in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Nicotine dependence :
For some people, using any amount of tobacco can quickly lead to nicotine dependence. Signs that you may be addicted include:
You can't stop smoking. You've made one or more serious, but unsuccessful, attempts to stop.
You have withdrawal symptoms when you try to stop. Your attempts at stopping have caused physical and mood-related symptoms, such as strong cravings, anxiety, irritability, restlessness, difficulty concentrating, depressed mood, frustration, anger, increased hunger, insomnia, constipation or diarrhea.
You keep smoking despite health problems. Even though you've developed health problems with your lungs or your heart, you haven't been able to stop.
You give up social activities. You may stop going to smoke-free restaurants or stop socializing with family or friends because you can't smoke in these situations.
Causes for Nicotine dependence :
Nicotine is the chemical in tobacco that keeps you smoking. Nicotine reaches the brain within seconds of taking a puff. In the brain, nicotine increases the release of brain chemicals called neurotransmitters, which help regulate mood and behavior.
Dopamine, one of these neurotransmitters, is released in the reward center of the brain and causes feelings of pleasure and improved mood.
The more you smoke, the more nicotine you need to feel good. Nicotine quickly becomes part of your daily routine and intertwined with your habits and feelings.
Common situations that trigger the urge to smoke include:
Drinking coffee or taking breaks at work
Talking on the phone
Drinking alcohol
Driving your car
Spending time with friends
To overcome your nicotine dependence, you need to become aware of your triggers and make a plan for dealing with them.
Risk Factors for Nicotine dependence:
Anyone who smokes or uses other forms of tobacco is at risk of becoming dependent. Factors that influence who will use tobacco include:
Age. Most people begin smoking during childhood or the teen years. The younger you are when you begin smoking, the greater the chance that you'll become addicted.
Genetics. The likelihood that you will start smoking and keep smoking may be partly inherited. Genetic factors may influence how receptors on the surface of your brain's nerve cells respond to high doses of nicotine delivered by cigarettes.
Parents and peers. Children who grow up with parents who smoke are more likely to become smokers. Children with friends who smoke are also more likely to try it.
Depression or other mental illness. Many studies show an association between depression and smoking. People who have depression, schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress disorder or other forms of mental illness are more likely to be smokers.
Substance use. People who abuse alcohol and illegal drugs are more likely to be smokers.
Complications for Nicotine dependence:
Tobacco smoke contains more than 60 known cancer-causing chemicals and thousands of other harmful substances. Even "all natural" or herbal cigarettes have harmful chemicals.
You already know that people who smoke cigarettes are much more likely to develop and die of certain diseases than people who don't smoke. But you may not realize just how many different health problems smoking causes:
Lung cancer and lung disease. Smoking is the leading cause of lung cancer deaths. In addition, smoking causes lung diseases, such as emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Smoking also makes asthma worse.
Other cancers. Smoking increases the risk of many types of cancer, including cancer of the mouth, throat (pharynx), esophagus, larynx, bladder, pancreas, kidney, cervix and some types of leukemia. Overall, smoking causes 30% of all cancer deaths.
Heart and circulatory system problems. Smoking increases your risk of dying of heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease, including heart attacks and strokes. If you have heart or blood vessel disease, such as heart failure, smoking worsens your condition.
Diabetes. Smoking increases insulin resistance, which can set the stage for type 2 diabetes. If you have diabetes, smoking can speed the progress of complications, such as kidney disease and eye problems.
Eye problems. Smoking can increase your risk of serious eye problems such as cataracts and loss of eyesight from macular degeneration.
Infertility and impotence. Smoking increases the risk of reduced fertility in women and the risk of impotence in men.
Complications during pregnancy. Mothers who smoke while pregnant face a higher risk of preterm delivery and giving birth to lower birth weight babies.
Cold, flu and other illnesses. Smokers are more prone to respiratory infections, such as colds, the flu and bronchitis.
Tooth and gum disease. Smoking is associated with an increased risk of developing inflammation of the gum and a serious gum infection that can destroy the support system for teeth (periodontitis).
Smoking also poses health risks to those around you. Nonsmoking spouses and partners of smokers have a higher risk of lung cancer and heart disease compared with people who don't live with a smoker. Children whose parents smoke are more prone to worsening asthma, ear infections and colds.
Preventions for Nicotine dependence
The best way to prevent nicotine dependence is to not use tobacco in the first place.
The best way to keep children from smoking is to not smoke yourself. Research has shown that children whose parents do not smoke or who successfully quit smoking are much less likely to take up smoking.
Condition name:Niemann-Pick disease
Overview of Niemann-Pick disease:
Niemann-Pick disease is a group of rare conditions passed down in families. The conditions affect the body's ability to break down and use fats, such as cholesterol and lipids, inside cells. Because of the buildup of fats, these cells don't work as they should and, over time, the cells die. Niemann-Pick disease can affect the brain, nerves, liver, spleen and bone marrow. Sometimes it can affect the lungs.
Symptoms of Niemann-Pick disease relate to worsening function of the nerves, brain and other organs over time.
Niemann-Pick disease can happen at different ages but mainly affects children. The condition has no known cure and is sometimes fatal. Treatment is focused on helping people live with their symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Niemann-Pick disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Niemann-Pick disease :
The three main types of Niemann-Pick disease are called A, B and C. Symptoms differ widely but depend in part on the type and how severe the condition is. Symptoms may include:
Loss of muscle control, such as clumsiness and problems walking.
Muscle weakness and floppiness.
Stiff and awkward movements.
Vision problems, such as vision loss and eye movements that can't be controlled.
Hearing loss.
Being sensitive to touch.
Problems sleeping.
Problems swallowing and eating.
Slurred speech.
Problems with learning and memory that get worse.
Mental health conditions, such as depression, paranoia and behavior problems.
Liver and spleen that get too large.
Repeated infections that cause pneumonia.
Some infants with type A show symptoms within the first few months of life. Those with type B may not show symptoms for years and have a better chance of living to adulthood. People with type C can start to have symptoms at any age but may not have any symptoms until adulthood.
Causes for Niemann-Pick disease :
Niemann-Pick disease is caused by changes in specific genes related to how the body breaks down and uses fats. These fats include cholesterol and lipids. The gene changes are passed from parents to children in a pattern called autosomal recessive inheritance. This means that both the mother and the father must pass on a changed gene for the child to have the condition.
Risk Factors for Niemann-Pick disease:
Risk factors for Niemann-Pick disease depend on the type. The condition is caused by changes in genes that are passed down in families. Although the condition can occur in any population, type A occurs more often in people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Type B occurs more often in people of North African descent. Type C occurs in many different populations, but it occurs more often in people of Acadian and Bedouin descent.
If you have a child with Niemann-Pick disease, your risk of having another child with the condition is higher.
Genetic testing and counseling can help you learn about your risks.
There are no Complications available for Niemann-Pick disease in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Niemann-Pick disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nightmare disorder
Overview of Nightmare disorder:
A nightmare is a disturbing dream associated with negative feelings, such as anxiety or fear that awakens you. Nightmares are common in children but can happen at any age. Occasional nightmares usually are nothing to worry about.
Nightmares may begin in children between 3 and 6 years old and tend to decrease after the age of 10. During the teen and young adult years, girls appear to have nightmares more often than boys do. Some people have them as adults or throughout their lives.
Although nightmares are common, nightmare disorder is relatively rare. Nightmare disorder is when nightmares happen often, cause distress, disrupt sleep, cause problems with daytime functioning or create fear of going to sleep.
Home Remedies for Nightmare disorder:
If nightmares are a problem for you or your child, try these strategies:
Establish a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. A consistent bedtime routine is important. Do quiet, calming activities â€” such as reading books, doing puzzles or soaking in a warm bath â€” before bed. Meditation, deep breathing or relaxation exercises may help, too. Also, make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep.
Offer reassurances. If your child is struggling with nightmares, be patient, calm and reassuring. After your child awakens from a nightmare, respond quickly and soothe your child at the bedside. This may prevent future nightmares.
Talk about the dream. Ask your child to describe the nightmare. What happened? Who was in the dream? What made it scary? Then remind your child that nightmares aren't real and can't hurt you.
Rewrite the ending. Imagine a happy ending for the nightmare. Encourage your child to draw a picture of the nightmare, "talk" to the characters in the nightmare or write about the nightmare in a journal. Sometimes a little creativity can help.
Put stress in its place. If stress or anxiety is an issue, talk about it. Practice some simple stress-relief activities, such as deep breathing or relaxation. A mental health professional can help, if needed.
Provide comfort measures. Your child might feel more secure if he or she sleeps with a favorite stuffed animal, blanket or other comfort object. Leave your child's door open at night so that he or she won't feel alone. Leave your door open, too, in case your child needs comfort during the night.
Use a night light. Keep a night light on in your child's room. If your child wakes up during the night, the light may be reassuring.
Symptoms for Nightmare disorder :
You're more likely to have a nightmare in the second half of your night. Nightmares may occur rarely or more frequently, even several times a night. Episodes are generally brief, but they cause you to awaken, and returning to sleep can be difficult.
A nightmare may involve these features:
Your dream seems vivid and real and is very upsetting, often becoming more disturbing as the dream unfolds.
Your dream storyline is usually related to threats to safety or survival, but it can have other disturbing themes.
Your dream awakens you.
You feel scared, anxious, angry, sad or disgusted as a result of your dream.
You feel sweaty or have a pounding heartbeat while in bed.
You can think clearly upon awakening and can recall details of your dream.
Your dream causes distress that keeps you from falling back to sleep easily.
Nightmares are only considered a disorder if you experience:
Frequent occurrences
Major distress or impairment during the day, such as anxiety or persistent fear, or bedtime anxiety about having another nightmare
Problems with concentration or memory, or you can't stop thinking about images from your dreams
Daytime sleepiness, fatigue or low energy
Problems functioning at work or school or in social situations
Behavior problems related to bedtime or fear of the dark
Having a child with nightmare disorder can cause significant sleep disturbance and distress for parents or caregivers.
Occasional nightmares aren't usually a cause for concern. If your child has nightmares, you can simply mention them at a routine well-child exam. However, consult your doctor if nightmares:
Occur frequently and persist over time
Routinely disrupt sleep
Cause fear of going to sleep
Cause daytime behavior problems or difficulty functioning
Causes for Nightmare disorder :
Nightmare disorder is referred to by doctors as a parasomnia — a type of sleep disorder that involves undesirable experiences that occur while you're falling asleep, during sleep or when you're waking up. Nightmares usually occur during the stage of sleep known as rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. The exact cause of nightmares is not known.
Nightmares can be triggered by many factors, including:
Stress or anxiety. Sometimes the ordinary stresses of daily life, such as a problem at home or school, trigger nightmares. A major change, such as a move or the death of a loved one, can have the same effect. Experiencing anxiety is associated with a greater risk of nightmares.
Trauma. Nightmares are common after an accident, injury, physical or sexual abuse, or other traumatic event. Nightmares are common in people who have post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Sleep deprivation. Changes in your schedule that cause irregular sleeping and waking times or that interrupt or reduce the amount of sleep you get can increase your risk of having nightmares. Insomnia is associated with an increased risk of nightmares.
Medications. Some drugs — including certain antidepressants, blood pressure medications, beta blockers, and drugs used to treat Parkinson's disease or to help stop smoking — can trigger nightmares.
Substance misuse. Alcohol and recreational drug use or withdrawal can trigger nightmares.
Other disorders. Depression and other mental health disorders may be linked to nightmares. Nightmares can happen along with some medical conditions, such as heart disease or cancer. Having other sleep disorders that interfere with adequate sleep can be associated with having nightmares.
Scary books and movies. For some people, reading scary books or watching frightening movies, especially before bed, can be associated with nightmares.
Risk Factors for Nightmare disorder:
Nightmares are more common when family members have a history of nightmares or other sleep parasomnias, such as talking during sleep.
Complications for Nightmare disorder:
Nightmare disorder may cause:
Excessive daytime sleepiness, which can lead to difficulties at school or work, or problems with everyday tasks, such as driving and concentrating
Problems with mood, such as depression or anxiety from dreams that continue to bother you
Resistance to going to bed or to sleep for fear you'll have another bad dream
Suicidal thoughts or suicide attempts
There are no preventive measures available for Nightmare disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
Overview of Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, often called NAFLD, is a liver problem that affects people who drink little to no alcohol. In NAFLD, too much fat builds up in the liver. It is seen most often in people who are overweight or obese.
NAFLD is becoming more common, especially in Middle Eastern and Western nations as the number of people with obesity rises. It is the most common form of liver disease in the world. NAFLD ranges in severity from hepatic steatosis, called fatty liver, to a more severe form of disease called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH).
NASH causes the liver to swell and become damaged due to the fat deposits in the liver. NASH may get worse and may lead to serious liver scarring, called cirrhosis, and even liver cancer. This damage is like the damage caused by heavy alcohol use.
A move is currently underway to change the name nonalcoholic fatty liver disease to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Experts also have recommended changing the name nonalcoholic steatohepatitis to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH).
Home Remedies for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
With help from your health care team, you can take steps to manage nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. You can:
Lose weight. If you're overweight or obese, reduce the number of calories you eat each day and increase your physical activity to lose weight slowly. Eating fewer calories is key to losing weight and managing this disease. If you tried to lose weight in the past and couldn't, ask your health care team for help.
Choose a healthy diet. Eat a healthy diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Your health care team may suggest avoiding or limiting certain foods and drinks, such as white bread, red and processed meats, juices, and sweetened drinks. Keep track of all calories you take in.
Exercise and be more active. Aim for at least 150 minutes of exercise a week. If you're trying to lose weight, you might find that more exercise is helpful. But if you don't already exercise regularly, get your health care team's OK first and start slowly.
Manage your diabetes. Follow your health care team's advice to manage your diabetes. Take your medicines as told by your care team and watch your blood sugar closely.
Lower your cholesterol and blood pressure. Improve your cholesterol levels and blood pressure if they are high. A healthy diet, exercise and medicines can help keep your cholesterol, triglycerides and blood pressure at healthy levels.
Protect your liver. Avoid things that could harm your liver health. For example, don't drink alcohol. Follow the instructions on all medicines and nonprescription drugs. Check with your health care team before using any herbal supplements, as some can harm the liver.
Symptoms for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease :
NAFLD often has no symptoms. When it does, they may include:
Fatigue.
Not feeling well, or malaise.
Pain or discomfort in the upper right belly area.
Possible symptoms of NASH and cirrhosis, or severe scarring, include:
Itchy skin.
Abdominal swelling, also called ascites (uh-SY-teez).
Shortness of breath.
Swelling of the legs.
Spider-like blood vessels just beneath the skin's surface.
Enlarged spleen.
Red palms.
Yellowing of the skin and eyes, or jaundice.
Causes for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease :
Experts don't know exactly why fat builds up in some livers and not others. They also don't fully understand why some fatty livers turn into NASH.
NAFLD and NASH are both linked to the following:
Genetics.
Overweight or obesity.
Insulin resistance, which happens when your cells don't take up sugar in response to the hormone insulin.
Type 2 diabetes, sometimes called high blood sugar or hyperglycemia.
High levels of fats, especially triglycerides, in the blood.
These combined health problems may contribute to a fatty liver. However, some people get NAFLD even if they do not have any risk factors.
Risk Factors for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
Many diseases and health problems can increase your risk of NAFLD, including:
Family history of fatty liver disease or obesity.
Growth hormone deficiency, which means the body doesn't make enough hormones to grow.
High cholesterol.
High levels of triglycerides in the blood.
Insulin resistance.
Metabolic syndrome.
Obesity, especially when fat is centered in the waist.
Polycystic ovary syndrome.
Obstructive sleep apnea.
Type 2 diabetes.
Underactive thyroid, also called hypothyroidism.
Underactive pituitary gland, or hypopituitarism.
NASH is more likely in these groups:
People older than 50.
People with certain genetic risk factors.
People with obesity.
People with diabetes or high blood sugar.
People with symptoms of metabolic syndrome, such as high blood pressure, high triglycerides and a large waist size.
It is hard to tell apart NAFLD from NASH without a clinical evaluation and testing.
Complications for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease:
Severe liver scarring, or cirrhosis, is the main complication of NAFLD and NASH. Cirrhosis happens because of liver injury, such as the damage caused by inflammation in NASH. As the liver tries to stop inflammation, it creates areas of scarring, also called fibrosis. With ongoing inflammation, fibrosis spreads and takes up more liver tissue.
If nothing is done to stop the scarring, cirrhosis can lead to:
Fluid buildup in the stomach area, called ascites.
Swollen veins in your esophagus, or esophageal varices, which can rupture and bleed.
Confusion, sleepiness and slurred speech, also called hepatic encephalopathy.
Overactive spleen, or hypersplenism, which can cause too few blood platelets.
Liver cancer.
End-stage liver failure, which means the liver has stopped working.
Experts guess that about 24% of adults in the U.S. have NAFLD, and about 1.5% to 6.5% have NASH.
Preventions for Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
To reduce your risk of NAFLD:
Eat a healthy diet. Eat a healthy diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and healthy fats.
Limit alcohol, simple sugars and portion sizes. Avoid sugary drinks like soda, sports drinks, juices and sweet tea. Drinking alcohol can damage your liver and should be avoided or minimized.
Keep a healthy weight. If you are overweight or obese, work with your health care team to gradually lose weight. If you are a healthy weight, work to keep it by eating a healthy diet and exercising.
Exercise. Be active most days of the week. Get an OK from your health care team first if you haven't been exercising regularly.
Condition name:Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
Overview of Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma:
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is a type of cancer that begins in your lymphatic system, which is part of the body's germ-fighting immune system. In non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, white blood cells called lymphocytes grow abnormally and can form growths (tumors) throughout the body.
Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is a general category of lymphoma. There are many subtypes that fall in this category. Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma are among the most common subtypes. The other general category of lymphoma is Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Advances in diagnosis and treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma have helped improve the prognosis for people with this disease.
There are no home remedies available for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma :
Signs and symptoms of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma may include:
Swollen lymph nodes in your neck, armpits or groin
Abdominal pain or swelling
Chest pain, coughing or trouble breathing
Persistent fatigue
Fever
Night sweats
Unexplained weight loss
Causes for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma :
In most instances, doctors don't know what causes non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It begins when your body produces too many abnormal lymphocytes, which are a type of white blood cell.
Normally, lymphocytes go through a predictable life cycle. Old lymphocytes die, and your body creates new ones to replace them. In non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, your lymphocytes don't die, and your body keeps creating new ones. This oversupply of lymphocytes crowds into your lymph nodes, causing them to swell.
Risk Factors for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma:
Most people diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma don't have any obvious risk factors. And many people who have risk factors for the disease never develop it.
Some factors that may increase the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma include:
Medications that suppress your immune system. If you've had an organ transplant and take medicines that control your immune system, you might have an increased risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Infection with certain viruses and bacteria. Certain viral and bacterial infections appear to increase the risk of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Viruses linked to this type of cancer include HIV and Epstein-Barr infection. Bacteria linked to non-Hodgkin's lymphoma include the ulcer-causing Helicobacter pylori.
Chemicals. Certain chemicals, such as those used to kill insects and weeds, may increase your risk of developing non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. More research is needed to understand the possible link between pesticides and the development of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Older age. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma can occur at any age, but the risk increases with age. It's most common in people 60 or over.
There are no Complications available for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Nonmelanoma skin cancer
Overview of Nonmelanoma skin cancer:
Nonmelanoma skin cancer refers to all the types of cancer that occur in the skin that are not melanoma.
Several types of skin cancer fall within the broader category of nonmelanoma skin cancer, with the most common types being basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma.
Nonmelanoma skin cancer treatment depends on the type of cancer. Skin cancer treatment usually involves surgery to remove the cancer cells.
There are no home remedies available for Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Nonmelanoma skin cancer :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Nonmelanoma skin cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Noonan syndrome
Overview of Noonan syndrome:
Noonan syndrome is a genetic condition that stops typical development in various parts of the body. It can affect a person in several ways, including unusual facial features, short height, heart problems and other physical problems. It also can cause a child to develop more slowly than usual, for example, in walking, talking or learning new things.
A changed gene causes Noonan syndrome. A child inherits a copy of an affected gene from a parent. This is called dominant inheritance. The condition also can occur as a spontaneous change. This means there's no family history involved.
Doctors manage Noonan syndrome by controlling the symptoms and complications. They may use a growth hormone to treat short height in some people with Noonan syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for Noonan syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Noonan syndrome :
Symptoms of Noonan syndrome vary greatly and range from mild to severe. These symptoms may be related to the specific gene containing the change.
Causes for Noonan syndrome :
A change in one or more genes can cause Noonan syndrome. Changes in these genes produce proteins that are always active. Because these genes play a role in how tissues form in the body, this constant activation of proteins disrupts the typical process of cell growth and division.
The gene changes that cause Noonan syndrome can be:
Inherited. Children who have one parent with Noonan syndrome who carries the changed gene have a 50% chance of developing the condition. This is called an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern.
Random. Noonan syndrome can develop in a child because of a new changed gene — meaning the child did not inherit that gene from a parent. This is known as a de novo genetic condition.
In some cases, the cause of Noonan syndrome is not known.
Risk Factors for Noonan syndrome:
A parent with Noonan syndrome has a 50% chance of passing the changed gene to a child. The child who inherits the irregular gene may or may not have more symptoms than the parent who is affected.
Complications for Noonan syndrome:
Complications from Noonan syndrome can arise that may need attention, including:
Developmental delays. Children with Noonan syndrome may be slow to develop compared with other children their age. For example, they may be way behind in learning to speak or walk or in learning things at school. A plan is needed to address the children's developmental challenges and learning and educational needs.
Bleeding and bruising. Sometimes the bleeding problem common in people with Noonan syndrome is not found until they have dental work or surgery.
Buildup of fluid. Called lymphedema, this complication involves too much fluid that builds up in various areas of the body. Sometimes fluid can collect in the space around the heart and lungs.
Urinary tract issues. A kidney structure that is not typical may raise the risk of urinary tract infections.
Fertility issues. Males may have a low sperm count and other fertility problems because of undescended testicles or testicles that do not work properly.
Higher risk of cancer. There may be a higher risk of developing certain types of cancer, such as leukemia or certain types of tumors.
Preventions for Noonan syndrome
If you have a family history of Noonan syndrome, talk to your doctor or health care team about the benefits of genetic counseling before you have children. Genetic testing can detect Noonan syndrome.
If Noonan syndrome is detected early, it's possible that proper and ongoing care may lessen complications such as heart disease.
Condition name:Obesity
Overview of Obesity:
Obesity is a complex disease involving having too much body fat. Obesity isn't just a cosmetic concern. It's a medical problem that increases the risk of many other diseases and health problems. These can include heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, liver disease, sleep apnea and certain cancers.
There are many reasons why some people have trouble losing weight. Often, obesity results from inherited, physiological and environmental factors, combined with diet, physical activity and exercise choices.
The good news is that even modest weight loss can improve or prevent the health problems associated with obesity. A healthier diet, increased physical activity and behavior changes can help you lose weight. Prescription medicines and weight-loss procedures are other options for treating obesity.
Home Remedies for Obesity:
Your effort to overcome obesity is more likely to be successful if you follow strategies at home along with your formal treatment plan. These can include:
Learning about your condition. Education about obesity can help you learn more about why you developed obesity and what you can do about it. You may feel more empowered to take control and stick to your treatment plan. Read reputable self-help books and consider talking about them with your health care professional or therapist.
Setting realistic goals. When you have to lose a lot of weight, you may set goals that are unrealistic, such as trying to lose too much too fast. Don't set yourself up for failure. Set daily or weekly goals for exercise and weight loss. Make small changes in your diet instead of attempting drastic changes that you're not likely to stick with for the long haul.
Sticking to your treatment plan. Changing a lifestyle you may have lived with for many years can be hard to do. Be honest with your doctor, therapist or other health care professionals if you find your activity or eating goals slipping. You can work together to come up with new ideas or new approaches.
Enlisting support. Get your family and friends on board with your weight-loss goals. Surround yourself with people who will support you and help you, not sabotage your efforts. Make sure they understand how important weight loss is to your health. You also might want to join a weight-loss support group.
Keeping a record. Keep a food and activity log. This record can help you remain accountable for your eating and exercise habits. You can discover things that may be holding you back. You also might see what works well for you. You can use your log to track other important health parameters such as blood pressure, cholesterol levels and overall fitness.
Symptoms for Obesity :
Body mass index, known as BMI, is often used to diagnose obesity. To calculate BMI, multiply weight in pounds by 703, divide by height in inches and then divide again by height in inches. Or divide weight in kilograms by height in meters squared. There are several online calculators available that help calculate BMI.
See BMI calculator
Asians with a BMI of 23 or higher may have an increased risk of health problems.
For most people, BMI provides a reasonable estimate of body fat. However, BMI doesn't directly measure body fat. Some people, such as muscular athletes, may have a BMI in the obesity category even though they don't have excess body fat.
Many health care professionals also measure around a person's waist to help guide treatment decisions. This measurement is called a waist circumference. Weight-related health problems are more common in men with a waist circumference over 40 inches (102 centimeters). They're more common in women with a waist measurement over 35 inches (89 centimeters). Body fat percentage is another measurement that may be used during a weight loss program to track progress.
Causes for Obesity :
Although there are genetic, behavioral, metabolic and hormonal influences on body weight, obesity occurs when you take in more calories than you burn through typical daily activities and exercise. Your body stores these excess calories as fat.
In the United States, most people's diets are too high in calories — often from fast food and high-calorie beverages. People with obesity might eat more calories before feeling full, feel hungry sooner, or eat more due to stress or anxiety.
Many people who live in Western countries now have jobs that are much less physically demanding, so they don't tend to burn as many calories at work. Even daily activities use fewer calories, courtesy of conveniences such as remote controls, escalators, online shopping, and drive-through restaurants and banks.
Risk Factors for Obesity:
Obesity often results from a combination of causes and contributing factors:
Complications for Obesity:
People with obesity are more likely to develop a number of potentially serious health problems, including:
Heart disease and strokes. Obesity makes you more likely to have high blood pressure and unhealthy cholesterol levels, which are risk factors for heart disease and strokes.
Type 2 diabetes. Obesity can affect the way the body uses insulin to control blood sugar levels. This raises the risk of insulin resistance and diabetes.
Certain cancers. Obesity may increase the risk of cancer of the uterus, cervix, endometrium, ovary, breast, colon, rectum, esophagus, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, kidney and prostate.
Digestive problems. Obesity increases the likelihood of developing heartburn, gallbladder disease and liver problems.
Sleep apnea. People with obesity are more likely to have sleep apnea, a potentially serious disorder in which breathing repeatedly stops and starts during sleep.
Osteoarthritis. Obesity increases the stress placed on weight-bearing joints. It also promotes inflammation, which includes swelling, pain and a feeling of heat within the body. These factors may lead to complications such as osteoarthritis.
Fatty liver disease. Obesity increases the risk of fatty liver disease, a condition that happens due to excessive fat deposit in the liver. In some cases, this can lead to serious liver damage, known as liver cirrhosis.
Severe COVID-19 symptoms. Obesity increases the risk of developing severe symptoms if you become infected with the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019, known as COVID-19. People who have severe cases of COVID-19 may need treatment in intensive care units or even mechanical assistance to breathe.
There are no preventive measures available for Obesity in the knowledge baseCondition name:Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Overview of Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD):
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) features a pattern of unwanted thoughts and fears known as obsessions. These obsessions lead you to do repetitive behaviors, also called compulsions. These obsessions and compulsions get in the way of daily activities and cause a lot of distress.
Ultimately, you feel driven to do compulsive acts to ease your stress. Even if you try to ignore or get rid of bothersome thoughts or urges, they keep coming back. This leads you to act based on ritual. This is the vicious cycle of OCD.
OCD often centers around certain themes, such as being overly fearful of getting contaminated by germs. To ease contamination fears, you may wash your hands over and over again until they're sore and chapped.
If you have OCD, you may be ashamed, embarrassed and frustrated about the condition. But treatment can be effective.
Home Remedies for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD):
Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a chronic condition, which means that it may always be part of your life. While a professional should treat OCD, you can do some things to build on your treatment plan:
Practice what you learn. Work with your mental health professional to pinpoint methods to help manage symptoms. Practice these methods regularly.
Take your medicines as directed. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medicines. If you stop, OCD symptoms are likely to return.
Pay attention to warning signs. You and your doctor may have pinpointed issues that can cause your OCD symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms return. Contact your doctor or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel.
Check first before taking other medicines. Contact the doctor who's treating you for OCD before you take medicines prescribed by another doctor or before taking any medicines available without a prescription, vitamins, herbal remedies or other supplements. This will help reduce possible interactions.
Symptoms for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) :
Obsessive-compulsive disorder usually includes both obsessions and compulsions. But it's also possible to have only obsession symptoms or only compulsion symptoms. You may or may not know that your obsessions and compulsions are beyond reason. But they take up a great deal of time, reduce your quality of life, and get in the way of your daily routines and responsibilities.
Causes for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) :
The cause of obsessive-compulsive disorder isn't fully understood. Main theories include:
Biology. OCD may be due to changes in your body's natural chemistry or brain functions.
Genetics. OCD may have a genetic component, but specific genes have yet to be found.
Learning. Obsessive fears and compulsive behaviors can be learned from watching family members or learning them over time.
Risk Factors for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD):
Factors that may raise the risk of causing obsessive-compulsive disorder include:
Family history. Having parents or other family members with the disorder can raise your risk of getting OCD.
Stressful life events. If you've gone through traumatic or stressful events, your risk may increase. This reaction may cause the intrusive thoughts, rituals and emotional distress seen in OCD.
Other mental health disorders. OCD may be related to other mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorders, depression, substance abuse or tic disorders.
Complications for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD):
Issues due to obsessive-compulsive disorder include:
Excessive time spent taking part in ritualistic behaviors.
Health issues, such as contact dermatitis from frequent hand-washing.
Having a hard time going to work or school or taking part in social activities.
Troubled relationships.
Poor quality of life.
Thoughts about suicide and behavior related to suicide.
Preventions for Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
There's no sure way to prevent obsessive-compulsive disorder. However, getting treated as soon as possible may help keep OCD from getting worse and disrupting activities and your daily routine.
Condition name:Obstructive sleep apnea
Overview of Obstructive sleep apnea:
Obstructive sleep apnea is the most common sleep-related breathing disorder. People with obstructive sleep apnea repeatedly stop and start breathing while they sleep.
There are several types of sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea occurs when the throat muscles relax and block the airway. This happens off and on many times during sleep. A sign of obstructive sleep apnea is snoring.
Treatments for obstructive sleep apnea are available. One treatment is a device that uses positive pressure to keep the airway open during sleep. Another option is a mouthpiece to thrust the lower jaw forward during sleep. In some people, surgery might be an option too.
Home Remedies for Obstructive sleep apnea:
In many cases, self-care may be the most appropriate way for you to deal with obstructive sleep apnea. Try these tips:
Lose weight. If you're overweight or obese, even moderate weight loss may help relieve constriction of your airway. Losing weight also can improve your health and quality of life and might reduce your daytime sleepiness.
Exercise. Exercising, such as aerobic exercise and strength training, can help improve your condition. Aim to exercise about 150 minutes a week, and generally try to exercise most days of the week.
Don't drink alcohol or use some anti-anxiety medicines or sleeping pills. Alcohol, some anti-anxiety medicines and some sleeping pills can worsen obstructive sleep apnea and sleepiness.
Sleep on your side or stomach rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway.
To prevent sleeping on your back, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top or place pillows behind you to keep you sleeping on your side.
Keep your nasal passages open while you sleep. If you have congestion, use a saline nasal spray to help keep your nasal passages open. Talk to a member of your health care team about using nasal decongestants or antihistamines, because some medicines may be recommended for only short-term use.
Symptoms for Obstructive sleep apnea :
Symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea include:
Excessive daytime sleepiness.
Loud snoring.
Observed episodes of stopped breathing during sleep.
Waking during the night and gasping or choking.
Awakening in the morning with a dry mouth or sore throat.
Morning headaches.
Trouble focusing during the day.
Mood changes, such as depression or being easily upset.
High blood pressure.
Decreased interest in sex.
Causes for Obstructive sleep apnea :
Obstructive sleep apnea occurs when the muscles in the back of the throat relax too much to allow for proper breathing. These muscles support the back of the roof of the mouth, known as the soft palate. The muscles also support the tongue and side walls of the throat.
When the muscles relax, the airway narrows or closes as you breathe in. This can lower the level of oxygen in the blood and cause a buildup of carbon dioxide.
Your brain senses this impaired breathing and briefly rouses you from sleep so that you can reopen your airway. This awakening is usually so brief that you don't remember it.
You may awaken with shortness of breath that corrects itself quickly, within one or two deep breaths. Or you might make a snorting, choking or gasping sound.
This pattern can repeat itself 5 to 30 times or more each hour, all night long. These disruptions impair your ability to reach the deep, restful phases of sleep, and you'll probably feel sleepy during your waking hours.
People with obstructive sleep apnea might not be aware of their interrupted sleep. Many people with this type of sleep apnea don't realize they haven't slept well all night.
Risk Factors for Obstructive sleep apnea:
Anyone can develop obstructive sleep apnea. However, certain factors put you at increased risk, including:
Excess weight. Most but not all people with obstructive sleep apnea are overweight. Fat deposits around the upper airway can obstruct breathing. Medical conditions that are associated with obesity, such as hypothyroidism and polycystic ovary syndrome, also can cause obstructive sleep apnea.
Older age. The risk of obstructive sleep apnea increases as you age but appears to level off after your 60s and 70s.
Narrowed airway. A naturally narrow airway is a trait that can be passed down in your family. Or your tonsils or adenoids might become enlarged and block your airway.
High blood pressure, known as hypertension. Obstructive sleep apnea is relatively common in people with hypertension.
Chronic nasal congestion. Obstructive sleep apnea occurs twice as often in those who have consistent nasal congestion at night, regardless of the cause.
Smoking. People who smoke are more likely to have obstructive sleep apnea.
Diabetes. Obstructive sleep apnea might be more common in people with diabetes.
Male sex. In general, men are 2 to 3 times more likely as premenopausal women to have obstructive sleep apnea. However, the risk of obstructive sleep apnea increases in women after menopause.
A family history of sleep apnea. Having family members with obstructive sleep apnea might increase your risk.
Asthma. Research has found an association between asthma and the risk of obstructive sleep apnea.
Complications for Obstructive sleep apnea:
Obstructive sleep apnea is considered a serious medical condition. Complications can include:
Daytime fatigue and sleepiness. Because of a lack of restorative sleep at night, people with obstructive sleep apnea often have severe daytime drowsiness, fatigue and irritability. They might have difficulty concentrating and find themselves falling asleep at work, while watching TV or even when driving. This can put them at higher risk of work-related accidents.
Children and young people with obstructive sleep apnea might do poorly in school and commonly have attention or behavior problems.
Cardiovascular problems. Sudden drops in blood oxygen levels that occur during obstructive sleep apnea increase blood pressure and strain the cardiovascular system. Many people with obstructive sleep apnea develop high blood pressure, which can increase the risk of heart disease.
The worse the obstructive sleep apnea, the greater the risk of coronary artery disease, heart attack, heart failure and stroke.
Obstructive sleep apnea also increases the risk of heart rhythm problems known as arrhythmias. Arrhythmias can lower blood pressure. If there's underlying heart disease, these repeated multiple episodes of arrhythmias could lead to sudden death.
Complications with medicines and surgery. Obstructive sleep apnea also is a concern with certain medicines and general anesthesia. Medicines such as sedatives, some prescription painkillers and general anesthetics, relax the upper airway and can make obstructive sleep apnea worse.
If you have obstructive sleep apnea, having major surgery can worsen breathing problems. This is especially true if you have been sedated and you were lying on your back. People with obstructive sleep apnea might be more prone to complications after surgery.
Before you have surgery, tell your surgeon if you have obstructive sleep apnea or symptoms related to the condition. You may need to get tested for obstructive sleep apnea before surgery.
Eye problems. Some research has found a connection between obstructive sleep apnea and certain eye conditions, such as glaucoma. Eye complications can usually be treated.
Sleep-deprived partners. Loud snoring can keep those around you from getting good rest and eventually disrupt your relationships. Some partners choose to sleep in another room.
People with obstructive sleep apnea also may complain of memory problems, morning headaches, and mood swings or depression. They also may need to urinate often at night.
Obstructive sleep apnea might be a risk factor for COVID-19. People with obstructive sleep apnea have been found to be at higher risk for developing a severe form of COVID-19. They may be more likely to need hospital treatment than do those who don't have obstructive sleep apnea.
There are no preventive measures available for Obstructive sleep apnea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Occupational asthma
Overview of Occupational asthma:
Occupational asthma is a type of asthma caused by breathing in fumes, gases, dust or other substances while on the job. These substances can trigger an immune system response that changes how the lungs work. Occupational asthma also is called work-related asthma.
In asthma, the airways narrow and swell. They also may make extra mucus. This makes it difficult to breathe and may cause chest tightness, wheezing and shortness of breath.
Avoiding triggers is important for managing occupational asthma. Treatment includes medicines that reduce symptoms. For people who were diagnosed with asthma in the past, medicines may help improve symptoms related to workplace triggers.
If occupational asthma is not treated and triggers are not avoided, the asthma can cause permanent changes to the lungs.
There are no home remedies available for Occupational asthma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Occupational asthma :
Occupational asthma symptoms may include:
Wheezing.
Coughing.
Shortness of breath.
Chest tightness.
Other possible symptoms may include:
Runny nose.
Stuffy nose.
Itchy or watery eyes.
Occupational asthma symptoms depend on the substance you're exposed to, how long and how often you're exposed, and other factors. Your symptoms may:
Begin right after exposure to a substance, later in the day or after work.
Improve or go away on days off or during vacations and then return when you go to work.
May begin early in the day and fail to improve on days off as disease progresses.
May become permanent even after long periods away from work.
Causes for Occupational asthma :
More than 400 workplace substances have been identified as possible triggers of occupational asthma. These substances include:
Animal proteins found in dander, hair, scales, fur, saliva and body wastes.
Chemicals used to make paints, varnishes, adhesives, laminates and soldering resin. Other examples include chemicals used to make insulation, packaging materials, and foam mattresses and upholstery.
Enzymes used in detergents and baking flour.
Metals, particularly platinum, chromium and nickel sulfate.
Plant substances, including proteins found in natural rubber latex, flour, cereals, cotton, flax, hemp, rye, wheat and papaya.
Irritating gases or particles, such as chlorine gas, sulfur dioxide and smoke.
Asthma symptoms start when your lungs become irritated. This irritation causes an immune system reaction called inflammation. Inflammation is defined as swelling and other changes in airway tissues caused by immune system activity. These changes narrow the airways and make it difficult to breathe.
With occupational asthma, lung inflammation may be triggered by a substance that a person is allergic to, such as mold or an animal protein. Sometimes lung inflammation is triggered by an irritating substance, also called an irritant, such as chlorine or smoke.
Risk Factors for Occupational asthma:
The more you're exposed to an irritant, the greater the risk of developing occupational asthma. In addition, you will have increased risk if:
You have existing allergies or asthma. Although this can increase your risk, many people who have allergies or asthma do jobs that expose them to lung irritants and never have symptoms.
Other family members have allergies or asthma. Your parents may pass down genes that make it more likely for you to develop asthma.
You work around known asthma triggers. Some substances are known to be lung irritants and asthma triggers.
You smoke. Smoking increases your risk of developing asthma if you are exposed to certain types of irritants.
Complications for Occupational asthma:
The longer you're exposed to a substance that can cause occupational asthma, the worse your symptoms may become. Also, the longer you're exposed, the longer it will take for symptoms to improve after exposure stops. In some cases, exposure to airborne asthma triggers can cause permanent changes to your lungs.
Preventions for Occupational asthma
The best way to prevent occupational asthma is to control exposure to chemicals and other substances that are known to be irritating. Workplaces can set up controls to prevent exposures, use less harmful substances and provide personal protective equipment (PPE) for workers.
Medicines may help relieve symptoms and control inflammation linked to occupational asthma. But you can do several things on your own to be healthy and lessen the possibility of attacks:
If you smoke, quit. Being smoke-free may help prevent or lessen symptoms of occupational asthma.
Get a flu vaccination. This can help prevent illness that affects the lungs.
Avoid nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and other medicines that may make symptoms worse. Ask your healthcare professional about medicines you take regularly.
Lose weight. For people with obesity, losing weight can help improve symptoms and overall lung health.
If you are in the United States and you have a high-risk job, your company must follow rules to help protect you from harmful chemicals. Under guidelines from the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), your employer is required to do the following:
Tell you if you'll be working with any harmful chemicals.
Train you how to safely handle these chemicals.
Train you how to respond to an emergency, such as a chemical spill.
Supply protective gear, such as masks and respirators.
Offer extra training when a new chemical is used at your workplace.
Under OSHA guidelines, your employer is required to keep a material safety data sheet (MSDS) for each harmful chemical used in your workplace. This is a document that must be submitted by the chemical's manufacturer to your employer. You have a legal right to see and copy such documents. If you suspect you're allergic to a certain substance, show the MSDS to your healthcare professional.
While at work, watch for conditions that may not be safe or healthy. Report concerns to your supervisor. If necessary, call OSHA at 800-321-OSHA (800-321-6742) and ask for an on-site inspection. You can do this so that your name won't be revealed to your employer.
Condition name:Ocular rosacea
Overview of Ocular rosacea:
Ocular rosacea (roe-ZAY-she-uh) is inflammation that causes redness, burning and itching of the eyes. It often develops in people who have rosacea, a chronic skin condition that affects the face. Sometimes ocular (eye) rosacea is the first sign that you may later develop the facial type.
Ocular rosacea primarily affects adults between the ages of 30 and 50. It seems to develop in people who tend to blush and flush easily.
There's no cure for ocular rosacea, but medications and a good eye care routine can help control the signs and symptoms.
Home Remedies for Ocular rosacea:
You can help manage your ocular rosacea by following a good eye care routine. Keep up this routine even when your condition clears up to help prevent flare-ups. These tips may help.
Keep your eyelids clean by gently washing them at least twice a day with warm water or a product your doctor recommends.
Avoid makeup if your eyes are inflamed. When you're able to wear makeup, choose types that are nonoily (noncomedogenic) and free of fragrance.
Avoid wearing contact lenses during flare-ups, especially if your symptoms include dry eyes.
Prevent flare-ups by avoiding things that trigger or worsen your rosacea or ocular rosacea, if possible. Items that tend to dilate blood vessels in the face include hot, spicy foods and alcoholic beverages.
Use artificial tears to relieve dryness. Ask your doctor for guidance.
Symptoms for Ocular rosacea :
Signs and symptoms of ocular rosacea can precede the skin symptoms of rosacea, develop at the same time, develop later or occur on their own. Signs and symptoms of ocular rosacea may include:
Red, burning, itchy or watering eyes
Dry eyes
Grittiness or the feeling of having a foreign body in the eye or eyes
Blurred vision
Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
Dilated small blood vessels on the white part of the eye that are visible when you look in a mirror
Red, swollen eyelids
Recurrent eye or eyelid infections, such as pink eye (conjunctivitis), blepharitis, sties or chalazia
The severity of ocular rosacea symptoms doesn't always match the severity of skin symptoms.
Causes for Ocular rosacea :
The exact cause of ocular rosacea, like skin rosacea, is unknown. It may be due to one or more factors, including:
Heredity
Environmental factors
Bacterial involvement
Blocked glands in the eyelids
Eyelash mites
Some research has also shown a possible link between skin rosacea and Helicobacter pylori bacteria, which is the same bacteria that causes gastrointestinal infections.
A number of factors that aggravate skin rosacea can aggravate ocular rosacea, as well. Some of these factors include:
Hot or spicy foods or beverages
Alcohol
Sunlight, wind or temperature extremes
Certain emotions, such as stress, anger or embarrassment
Strenuous exercise
Hot baths or saunas
Risk Factors for Ocular rosacea:
Ocular rosacea is common in people with skin rosacea, although you can also have ocular rosacea without the skin being involved. Skin rosacea affects more women than men, and ocular rosacea affects men and women equally. It's also more common in fair-skinned people of Celtic and Northern European origin.
Complications for Ocular rosacea:
Ocular rosacea may affect the surface of your eye (cornea), particularly when you have dry eyes from evaporation of tears. Corneal complications can lead to visual symptoms. Inflammation of your eyelids (blepharitis) can cause secondary irritation of the cornea from misdirected eyelashes or other complications. Ultimately, corneal complications can lead to vision loss.
There are no preventive measures available for Ocular rosacea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Oligodendroglioma
Overview of Oligodendroglioma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Oligodendroglioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Oligodendroglioma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Oligodendroglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Oligodendroglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Oligodendroglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Oligodendroglioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)
Overview of Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD):
Even the best-behaved children can be difficult and challenging at times. But oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) includes a frequent and ongoing pattern of anger, irritability, arguing and defiance toward parents and other authority figures. ODD also includes being spiteful and seeking revenge, a behavior called vindictiveness.
These emotional and behavioral issues cause serious problems with family life, social activities, school and work. But as a parent, you don't have to try to manage a child with ODD alone. Your health care provider, a mental health professional and a child development expert can help.
Treatment of ODD involves learning skills to help build positive family interactions and to manage problem behaviors. Other therapy, and possibly medicines, may be needed to treat related mental health conditions.
Home Remedies for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD):
At home, you can work on improving problem behaviors of oppositional defiant disorder by practicing these strategies:
Recognize and praise your child's positive behaviors as close to the time you see them as possible. Be as specific as possible. For example, "I really liked the way you helped pick up your toys tonight." Providing rewards for positive behavior also may help, especially with younger children.
Model the behavior you want your child to have. Watching you interact well with others can help your child improve social skills.
Pick your battles and avoid power struggles. Almost everything can turn into a power struggle if you let it.
Set limits by giving clear instructions and using consistent reasonable consequences. Discuss setting these limits during times when you're not arguing with each other.
Set up a routine by developing a regular daily schedule for your child. Ask your child to help develop that routine.
Build in time together by planning a weekly schedule that includes you and your child doing things together.
Work together with your partner or others in your household to ensure consistent and appropriate discipline procedures. Also ask for support from teachers, coaches and other adults who spend time with your child.
Assign a household chore that's needed and that won't get done unless your child does it. At first, it's important to set your child up for success with tasks that are fairly easy to do well. Gradually blend in more-important and challenging jobs. Give clear, easy-to-follow instructions. Use this as an opportunity to reinforce positive behavior.
Be prepared for challenges early on. At first, your child probably won't cooperate or appreciate your changed response to their behavior. Expect behavior to worsen at first after you tell them the new things you now expect. At this early stage, staying consistent even if the problem behavior worsens, is the key to success.
With regular and consistent effort, using these methods can result in improved behavior and relationships.
Symptoms for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) :
Sometimes it's difficult to recognize the difference between a strong-willed or emotional child and one with oppositional defiant disorder. It's common for children to show oppositional behavior at certain stages of development.
Symptoms of ODD generally begin during preschool years. Sometimes ODD may develop later, but almost always before the early teen years. Oppositional and defiant behaviors are frequent and ongoing. They cause severe problems with relationships, social activities, school and work, for both the child and the family.
Emotional and behavioral symptoms of ODD generally last at least six months. They include angry and irritable mood, argumentative and defiant behavior, and hurtful and revengeful behavior.
Angry and irritable mood
Often and easily loses temper.
Is frequently touchy and easily annoyed by others.
Is often angry and resentful.
Argumentative and defiant behavior
Often argues with adults or people in authority.
Often actively defies or refuses to follow adults' requests or rules.
Often annoys or upsets people on purpose.
Often blames others for their own mistakes or misbehavior.
Hurtful and revengeful behavior
Says mean and hateful things when upset.
Tries to hurt the feelings of others and seeks revenge, also called being vindictive.
Has shown vindictive behavior at least twice in the past six months.
Severity
ODD can be mild, moderate or severe:
Mild. Symptoms occur only in one setting, such as only at home, school, work or with peers.
Moderate. Some symptoms occur in at least two settings.
Severe. Some symptoms occur in three or more settings.
For some children, symptoms may first be seen only at home. But with time, problem behavior also may happen in other settings, such as school, social activities and with friends.
Causes for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD) :
There's no known clear cause of oppositional defiant disorder. Causes may include a combination of genetic and environmental factors:
Genetics. A child's natural personality or character — also called temperament — may contribute to developing ODD. Differences in the way nerves and the brain function also may play a role.
Environment. Problems with parenting that may involve a lack of supervision, inconsistent or harsh discipline, or abuse or neglect may contribute to developing ODD.
Risk Factors for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD):
Oppositional defiant disorder is a complex problem. Possible risk factors for ODD include:
Temperament — a child who has a temperament that includes difficulty managing emotions, such as reacting with strong emotions to situations or having trouble tolerating frustration.
Parenting issues — a child who experiences abuse or neglect, harsh or inconsistent discipline, or a lack of proper supervision.
Other family issues — a child who lives with parent or family relationships that are unstable or has a parent with a mental health condition or substance use disorder.
Environment — problem behaviors that are reinforced through attention from peers and inconsistent discipline from other authority figures, such as teachers.
Complications for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD):
Children and teenagers with oppositional defiant disorder may have trouble at home with parents and siblings, in school with teachers, and at work with supervisors and other authority figures. Children and teens with ODD may struggle to make and keep friends and relationships.
ODD also may lead to other problems, such as:
Poor school and work performance.
Antisocial behavior.
Legal problems.
Impulse control problems.
Substance use disorder.
Suicide.
Many children and teens with ODD also have other mental health conditions, such as:
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
Conduct disorder.
Depression.
Anxiety disorders.
Learning and communication disorders.
Treating these other mental health conditions may help reduce ODD symptoms. It may be difficult to treat ODD if these other conditions are not evaluated and treated appropriately.
Preventions for Oppositional defiant disorder (ODD)
There's no sure way to prevent oppositional defiant disorder. But positive parenting and early treatment can help improve behavior and prevent the situation from getting worse. The earlier that ODD can be managed, the better.
Treatment can help restore your child's self-esteem and rebuild a positive relationship between you and your child. Your child's relationships with other important adults in their life — such as teachers and care providers — also will benefit from early treatment.
Condition name:Oral lichen planus
Overview of Oral lichen planus:
Oral lichen planus (LIE-kun PLAY-nus) is an ongoing (chronic) inflammatory condition that affects mucous membranes inside your mouth. Oral lichen planus may appear as white, lacy patches; red, swollen tissues; or open sores. These lesions may cause burning, pain or other discomfort.
Oral lichen planus can't be passed from one person to another. The disorder occurs when the immune system mounts an attack against cells of the oral mucous membranes for unknown reasons.
Symptoms can usually be managed, but people who have oral lichen planus need regular monitoring because they may be at risk of developing mouth cancer in the affected areas.
Home Remedies for Oral lichen planus:
In addition to regular medical and dental treatment, self-care measures may help improve your oral lichen planus symptoms or help prevent recurring episodes of severe symptoms:
Practice good oral hygiene. Keep your mouth clean to reduce your symptoms and help prevent infection. Gently brush your teeth at least twice a day using a bland toothpaste, and floss daily.
Adjust your diet. Cut out spicy, salty or acidic foods if they seem to trigger or worsen your symptoms. Choose foods that are soft to help limit discomfort. And reduce or eliminate the use of caffeine.
Avoid irritants. Avoid alcohol or tobacco. Also avoid habits that can injure the inside of your mouth, such as chewing on your lip or cheek.
Learn to manage stress. Because stress may complicate symptoms or trigger symptom recurrence, you may need to develop skills to avoid or manage stress. Your doctor may refer you to a mental health professional who can help you identify stressors, develop stress management strategies or address other mental health concerns.
See your doctor or dentist regularly. See your dentist twice a year for checkups and cleanings, or more often as directed by your dentist. Because long-term treatment is often required, talk to your doctor or dentist about how often you should be seen to evaluate how your treatment is working and for cancer screening.
Symptoms for Oral lichen planus :
Signs and symptoms of oral lichen planus affect the mucous membranes of the mouth.
Causes for Oral lichen planus :
It's not known what causes oral lichen planus. However, T lymphocytes — certain white blood cells involved in inflammation — appear to be activated in oral lichen planus. This could indicate an immune disorder, and genetic factors may be involved. But more research is needed to determine the exact cause.
It's possible that, in some people, oral lichen planus may be triggered by certain medications, mouth injury, infection or allergy-causing agents such as dental materials. Stress may be involved in symptoms becoming worse or recurring. However, these causes are not confirmed.
Risk Factors for Oral lichen planus:
Anyone can develop oral lichen planus, but it's more common in middle-aged women.
Some factors may increase your risk of developing oral lichen planus, such as having a disorder that lowers your immunity or taking certain medications, though more research is needed.
Complications for Oral lichen planus:
Severe cases of oral lichen planus may increase the risk of:
Significant pain
Weight loss or nutritional deficiency
Stress or anxiety
Depression
Scarring from erosive lesions
Secondary oral yeast or fungal infections
Oral cancer
There are no preventive measures available for Oral lichen planus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Oral thrush
Overview of Oral thrush:
Oral thrush — also called oral candidiasis (kan-dih-DIE-uh-sis) — is a condition in which the fungus Candida albicans accumulates on the lining of your mouth. Candida is a normal organism in your mouth, but sometimes it can overgrow and cause symptoms.
Oral thrush causes creamy white lesions, usually on your tongue or inner cheeks. Sometimes oral thrush may spread to the roof of your mouth, your gums or tonsils, or the back of your throat.
Although oral thrush can affect anyone, it's more likely to occur in babies and older adults because they have reduced immunity; in other people with suppressed immune systems or certain health conditions; or people who take certain medications. Oral thrush is a minor problem if you're healthy, but if you have a weakened immune system, symptoms may be more severe and difficult to control.
Home Remedies for Oral thrush:
These suggestions may help during an outbreak of oral thrush:
Practice good oral hygiene. Brush and floss regularly. Replace your toothbrush often until your infection clears up. Don't share toothbrushes.
Disinfect dentures. Ask your dentist for the best way to disinfect your dentures to avoid reinfection.
Try warm saltwater rinses. Dissolve about 1/2 teaspoon (2.5 milliliters) of salt in 1 cup (237 milliliters) of warm water. Swish the rinse and then spit it out, but don't swallow.
Use nursing pads. If you're breast-feeding and develop a fungal infection, use pads to help prevent the fungus from spreading to your clothes. Look for pads that don't have a plastic barrier, which can encourage the growth of candida. Wear a clean bra every day. Ask your doctor about the best way to clean your breast nipples, bottle nipples, pacifiers and any detachable parts of a breast pump if you use one.
Symptoms for Oral thrush :
Initially, you may not even notice symptoms of oral thrush. Signs and symptoms may include:
Creamy white lesions on your tongue, inner cheeks, and sometimes on the roof of your mouth, gums and tonsils
Slightly raised lesions with a cottage cheese-like appearance
Redness, burning or soreness that may be severe enough to cause difficulty eating or swallowing
Slight bleeding if the lesions are rubbed or scraped
Cracking and redness at the corners of your mouth
A cottony feeling in your mouth
Loss of taste
Redness, irritation and pain under dentures (denture stomatitis)
In severe cases, usually related to cancer or a weakened immune system from HIV/AIDS, the lesions may spread downward into your esophagus — the long, muscular tube stretching from the back of your mouth to your stomach (Candida esophagitis). If this occurs, you may experience difficulty swallowing and pain or feel as if food is getting stuck in your throat.
In addition to the distinctive white mouth lesions, infants may have trouble feeding or be fussy and irritable. They can pass the infection to their mothers during breast-feeding. The infection may then pass back and forth between the mother's breasts and the baby's mouth.
Women whose breasts are infected with candida may experience these signs and symptoms:
Unusually red, sensitive, cracked or itchy nipples
Shiny or flaky skin on the darker, circular area around the nipple (areola)
Unusual pain during nursing or painful nipples between feedings
Stabbing pains deep within the breast
If you or your child develops white lesions inside the mouth, see your doctor or dentist.
Thrush is uncommon in healthy older children, teenagers and adults, so if thrush develops, see your doctor to determine if further evaluation is needed to check for an underlying medical condition or other cause.
Causes for Oral thrush :
Normally, your immune system works to repel harmful invading organisms, such as viruses, bacteria and fungi, while maintaining a balance between "good" and "bad" microbes that normally inhabit your body. But sometimes these protective mechanisms fail, increasing the number of candida fungus and allowing an oral thrush infection to take hold.
The most common type of candida fungus is Candida albicans. Several factors, such as a weakened immune system, can increase your risk of oral thrush.
Risk Factors for Oral thrush:
You may have an increased risk of oral thrush infection if any of these issues apply:
Weakened immunity. Oral thrush is more likely to occur in infants and older adults due to reduced immunity. Some medical conditions and treatments can suppress your immune system, such as cancer and its treatments, organ transplantation and required drugs that suppress the immune system, and HIV/AIDS.
Diabetes. If you have untreated diabetes or the disease isn't well-controlled, your saliva may contain large amounts of sugar, which encourages the growth of candida.
Vaginal yeast infections. Vaginal yeast infections are caused by the same fungus that causes oral thrush. You can pass the infection to your baby.
Medications. Drugs such as prednisone, inhaled corticosteroids, or antibiotics that disturb the natural balance of microorganisms in your body can increase your risk of oral thrush.
Other oral conditions. Wearing dentures, especially upper dentures, or having conditions that cause dry mouth can increase the risk of oral thrush.
Complications for Oral thrush:
Oral thrush is seldom a problem for healthy children and adults.
For people with lowered immunity, such as from cancer treatment or HIV/AIDS, thrush can be more serious. Untreated oral thrush can lead to more-serious systemic candida infections. If you have a weakened immune system, thrush may spread to your esophagus or other parts of your body.
Preventions for Oral thrush
These measures may help reduce your risk of developing candida infections:
Rinse your mouth. If you need to use a corticosteroid inhaler, be sure to rinse your mouth with water or brush your teeth after taking your medication.
Brush your teeth at least twice a day and floss daily or as often as your dentist recommends.
Check your dentures. Remove your dentures at night. Make sure dentures fit properly and don't cause irritation. Clean your dentures daily. Ask your dentist for the best way to clean your type of dentures.
See your dentist regularly, especially if you have diabetes or wear dentures. Ask your dentist how often you need to be seen.
Watch what you eat. Try limiting the amount of sugar-containing foods you eat. These may encourage the growth of candida.
Maintain good blood sugar control if you have diabetes. Well-controlled blood sugar can reduce the amount of sugar in your saliva, discouraging the growth of candida.
Treat a vaginal yeast infection as soon as possible.
Treat dry mouth. Ask your doctor about ways to avoid or treat your dry mouth.
Condition name:Orchitis
Overview of Orchitis:
Orchitis (or-KIE-tis) is an inflammation of one or both testicles. Bacterial or viral infections can cause orchitis, or the cause can be unknown. Orchitis is most often the result of a bacterial infection, such as a sexually transmitted infection (STI). In some cases, the mumps virus can cause orchitis.
Bacterial orchitis might be associated with epididymitis — an inflammation of the coiled tube (epididymis) at the back of the testicle that stores and carries sperm. In that case, it's called epididymo-orchitis.
Orchitis causes pain and can affect fertility. Medication can treat the causes of bacterial orchitis and can ease some signs and symptoms of viral orchitis. But it can take several weeks for scrotal tenderness to disappear.
Home Remedies for Orchitis:
To ease discomfort:
Rest in bed
Lie down so that your scrotum is elevated
Apply cold packs to your scrotum as tolerated
Avoid lifting heavy objects
Symptoms for Orchitis :
Orchitis signs and symptoms usually develop suddenly and can include:
Swelling in one or both testicles
Pain ranging from mild to severe
Fever
Nausea and vomiting
General feeling of unwellness (malaise)
The terms "testicle pain" and "groin pain" are sometimes used interchangeably. But groin pain occurs in the fold of skin between the thigh and abdomen — not in the testicle. The causes of groin pain are different from the causes of testicle pain.
Causes for Orchitis :
Orchitis can be caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Sometimes a cause of orchitis can't be determined.
Risk Factors for Orchitis:
Risk factors for nonsexually transmitted orchitis include:
Not being immunized against mumps
Having recurring urinary tract infections
Having surgery that involves the genitals or urinary tract
Being born with an abnormality in the urinary tract
Sexual behaviors that can lead to STIs put you at risk of sexually transmitted orchitis. Those behaviors include having:
Multiple sexual partners
Sex with a partner who has an STI
Sex without a condom
A personal history of an STI
Complications for Orchitis:
Complications of orchitis may include:
Testicular atrophy. Orchitis can eventually cause the affected testicle to shrink.
Scrotal abscess. The infected tissue fills with pus.
Infertility. Occasionally, orchitis can cause infertility or inadequate testosterone production (hypogonadism). But these are less likely if orchitis affects only one testicle.
Preventions for Orchitis
To prevent orchitis:
Get immunized against mumps, the most common cause of viral orchitis
Practice safe sex, to help protect against STIs that can cause bacterial orchitis
Condition name:Osteochondritis dissecans
Overview of Osteochondritis dissecans:
Osteochondritis dissecans (os-tee-o-kon-DRY-tis DIS-uh-kanz) is a joint condition in which bone underneath the cartilage of a joint dies due to lack of blood flow. This bone and cartilage can then break loose, causing pain and possibly hindering joint motion.
Osteochondritis dissecans occurs most often in children and adolescents. It can cause symptoms either after an injury to a joint or after several months of activity, especially high-impact activity such as jumping and running, that affects the joint. The condition occurs most commonly in the knee, but also occurs in elbows, ankles and other joints.
Doctors stage osteochondritis dissecans according to the size of the injury, whether the fragment is partially or completely detached, and whether the fragment stays in place. If the loosened piece of cartilage and bone stays in place, you may have few or no symptoms. For young children whose bones are still developing, the injury might heal by itself.
Surgery might be necessary if the fragment comes loose and gets caught between the moving parts of your joint or if you have persistent pain.
There are no home remedies available for Osteochondritis dissecans in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Osteochondritis dissecans :
Depending on the joint that's affected, signs and symptoms of osteochondritis dissecans might include:
Pain. This most common symptom of osteochondritis dissecans might be triggered by physical activity — walking up stairs, climbing a hill or playing sports.
Swelling and tenderness. The skin around your joint might be swollen and tender.
Joint popping or locking. Your joint might pop or stick in one position if a loose fragment gets caught between bones during movement.
Joint weakness. You might feel as though your joint is "giving way" or weakening.
Decreased range of motion. You might be unable to straighten the affected limb completely.
Causes for Osteochondritis dissecans :
The cause of osteochondritis dissecans is unknown. The reduced blood flow to the end of the affected bone might result from repetitive trauma — small, multiple episodes of minor, unrecognized injury that damage the bone. There might be a genetic component, making some people more inclined to develop the disorder.
Risk Factors for Osteochondritis dissecans:
Osteochondritis dissecans occurs most commonly in children and adolescents between the ages of 10 and 20 who are highly active in sports.
Complications for Osteochondritis dissecans:
Osteochondritis dissecans can increase your risk of eventually developing osteoarthritis in that joint.
Preventions for Osteochondritis dissecans
Adolescents participating in organized sports might benefit from education on the risks to their joints associated with overuse. Learning the proper mechanics and techniques of their sport, using the proper protective gear, and participating in strength training and stability training exercises can help reduce the chance of injury.
Condition name:Osteomyelitis
Overview of Osteomyelitis:
Osteomyelitis is an infection in a bone. Infections can reach a bone by traveling through the bloodstream or spreading from nearby tissue. Infections can also begin in the bone itself if an injury exposes the bone to germs.
Smokers and people with chronic health conditions, such as diabetes or kidney failure, are more at risk of developing osteomyelitis. People who have diabetes may develop osteomyelitis in their feet if they have foot ulcers.
Although once considered incurable, osteomyelitis can now be successfully treated. Most people need surgery to remove areas of the bone that have died. After surgery, strong intravenous antibiotics are typically needed.
There are no home remedies available for Osteomyelitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Osteomyelitis :
Signs and symptoms of osteomyelitis include:
Fever
Swelling, warmth and redness over the area of the infection
Pain in the area of the infection
Fatigue
Sometimes osteomyelitis causes no signs and symptoms or the signs and symptoms are hard to distinguish from other problems. This may be especially true for infants, older adults and people whose immune systems are compromised.
Causes for Osteomyelitis :
Most cases of osteomyelitis are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals.
Germs can enter a bone in a variety of ways, including:
The bloodstream. Germs in other parts of your body — for example, in the lungs from pneumonia or in the bladder from a urinary tract infection — can travel through your bloodstream to a weakened spot in a bone.
Injuries. Severe puncture wounds can carry germs deep inside your body. If such an injury becomes infected, the germs can spread into a nearby bone. Germs can also enter the body if you have broken a bone so severely that part of it is sticking out through your skin.
Surgery. Direct contamination with germs can occur during surgeries to replace joints or repair fractures.
Risk Factors for Osteomyelitis:
Your bones are normally resistant to infection, but this protection lessens as you get older. Other factors that can make your bones more vulnerable to osteomyelitis may include:
Complications for Osteomyelitis:
Osteomyelitis complications may include:
Bone death (osteonecrosis). An infection in your bone can impede blood circulation within the bone, leading to bone death. Areas where bone has died need to be surgically removed for antibiotics to be effective.
Septic arthritis. Sometimes, infection within bones can spread into a nearby joint.
Impaired growth. Normal growth in bones or joints in children may be affected if osteomyelitis occurs in the softer areas, called growth plates, at either end of the long bones of the arms and legs.
Skin cancer. If your osteomyelitis has resulted in an open sore that is draining pus, the surrounding skin is at higher risk of developing squamous cell cancer.
Preventions for Osteomyelitis
If you've been told that you have an increased risk of infection, talk to your doctor about ways to prevent infections from occurring. Reducing your risk of infection will also help your risk of developing osteomyelitis.
In general, take precautions to avoid cuts, scrapes and animal scratches or bites, which give germs easy access to your body. If you or your child has a minor injury, clean the area immediately and apply a clean bandage. Check wounds frequently for signs of infection.
Condition name:Osteoporosis
Overview of Osteoporosis:
Osteoporosis causes bones to become weak and brittle — so brittle that a fall or even mild stresses such as bending over or coughing can cause a break. Osteoporosis-related breaks most commonly occur in the hip, wrist or spine.
Bone is living tissue that is constantly being broken down and replaced. Osteoporosis occurs when the creation of new bone doesn't keep up with the loss of old bone.
Osteoporosis affects men and women of all races. But white and Asian women, especially older women who are past menopause, are at highest risk. Medicines, healthy diet and weight-bearing exercise can help prevent bone loss or strengthen already weak bones.
Home Remedies for Osteoporosis:
These suggestions might help reduce your risk of developing osteoporosis or breaking bones:
Don't smoke. Smoking increases rates of bone loss and the chance of fracture.
Limit alcohol. Consuming more than two alcoholic drinks a day may decrease bone formation. Being under the influence of alcohol also can increase your risk of falling.
Prevent falls. Wear low-heeled shoes with nonslip soles and check your house for electrical cords, area rugs and slippery surfaces that might cause you to fall. Keep rooms brightly lit, install grab bars just inside and outside your shower door, and make sure you can get into and out of your bed easily.
Symptoms for Osteoporosis :
There typically are no symptoms in the early stages of bone loss. But once your bones have been weakened by osteoporosis, you might have signs and symptoms that include:
Back pain, caused by a broken or collapsed bone in the spine.
Loss of height over time.
A stooped posture.
A bone that breaks much more easily than expected.
Causes for Osteoporosis :
Your bones are in a constant state of renewal — new bone is made and old bone is broken down. When you're young, your body makes new bone faster than it breaks down old bone and your bone mass increases. After the early 20s this process slows, and most people reach their peak bone mass by age 30. As people age, bone mass is lost faster than it's created.
How likely you are to develop osteoporosis depends partly on how much bone mass you attained in your youth. Peak bone mass is partly inherited and varies also by ethnic group. The higher your peak bone mass, the more bone you have "in the bank" and the less likely you are to develop osteoporosis as you age.
Risk Factors for Osteoporosis:
A number of factors can increase the likelihood that you'll develop osteoporosis — including your age, race, lifestyle choices, and medical conditions and treatments.
Complications for Osteoporosis:
Bone breaks, particularly in the spine or hip, are the most serious complications of osteoporosis. Hip fractures often are caused by a fall and can result in disability and even an increased risk of death within the first year after the injury.
In some cases, broken bones in the spine can occur even if you haven't fallen. The bones that make up your spine, called vertebrae, can weaken to the point of collapsing, which can result in back pain, lost height and a hunched-forward posture.
Preventions for Osteoporosis
Good nutrition and regular exercise are essential for keeping your bones healthy throughout your life.
Condition name:Osteosarcoma
Overview of Osteosarcoma:
Osteosarcoma is a kind of cancer that begins in the cells that form bones. Osteosarcoma tends to happen most often in teenagers and young adults. But it also can happen in younger children and older adults.
Osteosarcoma can start in any bone. It's most often found in the long bones of the legs, and sometimes the arms. Very rarely, it happens in soft tissue outside the bone.
Advances in the treatment of osteosarcoma have improved the outlook for this cancer. After treatment for osteosarcoma, people sometimes face late effects from the strong treatments used to control the cancer. Healthcare professionals often suggest lifelong monitoring for side effects after treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Osteosarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Osteosarcoma :
Osteosarcoma signs and symptoms most often start in a bone. The cancer most often affects the long bones of the legs, and sometimes the arms. The most common symptoms include:
Bone or joint pain. Pain might come and go at first. It can be mistaken for growing pains.
Pain related to a bone that breaks for no clear reason.
Swelling near a bone.
Causes for Osteosarcoma :
It's not clear what causes osteosarcoma.
Osteosarcoma happens when bone cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions, called genes, that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time.
In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Osteosarcoma:
Most people with osteosarcoma don't have any known risk factors for the cancer. But these factors can increase the risk of osteosarcoma:
Certain conditions that run in families. These include hereditary retinoblastoma, Bloom syndrome, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Rothmund-Thomson syndrome and Werner syndrome.
Other bone conditions. These include Paget's disease of bone and fibrous dysplasia.
Prior treatment with radiation therapy or chemotherapy.
There is no way to prevent osteosarcoma.
Complications for Osteosarcoma:
Complications of osteosarcoma and its treatment include the following.
There are no preventive measures available for Osteosarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ovarian cancer
Overview of Ovarian cancer:
Ovarian cancer is a growth of cells that forms in the ovaries. The cells multiply quickly and can invade and destroy healthy body tissue.
The female reproductive system contains two ovaries, one on each side of the uterus. The ovaries — each about the size of an almond — produce eggs (ova) as well as the hormones estrogen and progesterone.
Ovarian cancer treatment usually involves surgery and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Ovarian cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ovarian cancer :
When ovarian cancer first develops, it might not cause any noticeable symptoms. When ovarian cancer symptoms happen, they're usually attributed to other, more common conditions.
Signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer may include:
Abdominal bloating or swelling
Quickly feeling full when eating
Weight loss
Discomfort in the pelvic area
Fatigue
Back pain
Changes in bowel habits, such as constipation
A frequent need to urinate
Causes for Ovarian cancer :
It's not clear what causes ovarian cancer, though doctors have identified things that can increase the risk of the disease.
Doctors know that ovarian cancer begins when cells in or near the ovaries develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow and multiply quickly, creating a mass (tumor) of cancer cells. The cancer cells continue living when healthy cells would die. They can invade nearby tissues and break off from an initial tumor to spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Ovarian cancer:
Factors that can increase your risk of ovarian cancer include:
Older age. The risk of ovarian cancer increases as you age. It's most often diagnosed in older adults.
Inherited gene changes. A small percentage of ovarian cancers are caused by genes changes you inherit from your parents. The genes that increase the risk of ovarian cancer include BRCA1 and BRCA2. These genes also increase the risk of breast cancer.
Several other gene changes are known to increase the risk of ovarian cancer, including gene changes associated with Lynch syndrome and the genes BRIP1, RAD51C and RAD51D.
Family history of ovarian cancer. If you have blood relatives who have been diagnosed with ovarian cancer, you may have an increased risk of the disease.
Being overweight or obese. Being overweight or obese increases the risk of ovarian cancer.
Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy. Taking hormone replacement therapy to control menopause signs and symptoms may increase the risk of ovarian cancer.
Endometriosis. Endometriosis is an often painful disorder in which tissue similar to the tissue that lines the inside of your uterus grows outside your uterus.
Age when menstruation started and ended. Beginning menstruation at an early age or starting menopause at a later age, or both, may increase the risk of ovarian cancer.
Never having been pregnant. If you've never been pregnant, you may have an increased risk of ovarian cancer.
There are no Complications available for Ovarian cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Ovarian cancer
There's no sure way to prevent ovarian cancer. But there may be ways to reduce your risk:
Consider taking birth control pills. Ask your doctor whether birth control pills (oral contraceptives) may be right for you. Taking birth control pills reduces the risk of ovarian cancer. But these medications do have risks, so discuss whether the benefits outweigh those risks based on your situation.
Discuss your risk factors with your doctor. If you have a family history of breast and ovarian cancers, bring this up with your doctor. Your doctor can determine what this may mean for your own risk of cancer. You may be referred to a genetic counselor who can help you decide whether genetic testing may be right for you. If you're found to have a gene change that increases your risk of ovarian cancer, you may consider surgery to remove your ovaries to prevent cancer.
Condition name:Ovarian cysts
Overview of Ovarian cysts:
Ovarian cysts are sacs, usually filled with fluid, in an ovary or on its surface. Females have two ovaries. One ovary is located on each side of the uterus.
Each ovary is about the size and shape of an almond. Eggs develop and mature in the ovaries. Eggs are released in monthly cycles during the childbearing years.
Ovarian cysts are common. Most of the time, you have little or no discomfort, and the cysts are harmless. Most cysts go away without treatment within a few months.
But sometimes ovarian cysts can become twisted or burst open (rupture). This can cause serious symptoms. To protect your health, get regular pelvic exams and know the symptoms that can signal what might be a serious problem.
There are no home remedies available for Ovarian cysts in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ovarian cysts :
Most ovarian cysts cause no symptoms and go away on their own. But a large ovarian cyst can cause:
Pelvic pain that may come and go. You may feel a dull ache or a sharp pain in the area below your bellybutton toward one side.
Fullness, pressure or heaviness in your belly (abdomen).
Bloating.
Causes for Ovarian cysts :
Most ovarian cysts form as a result of your menstrual cycle. These are called functional cysts. Other types of cysts are much less common.
Risk Factors for Ovarian cysts:
The risk of having an ovarian cyst is higher with:
Hormonal problems. These include taking a fertility drug that causes you to ovulate, for example clomiphene or letrozole (Femara).
Pregnancy. Sometimes, the follicle that forms when you ovulate stays on your ovary throughout pregnancy. It can sometimes grow larger.
Endometriosis. Some of the tissue can attach to your ovary and form a cyst.
Severe pelvic infection. If the infection spreads to the ovaries, it can cause cysts.
Previous ovarian cysts. If you've had one ovarian cyst, you're likely to develop more.
Complications for Ovarian cysts:
They don't happen often, but complications can occur with ovarian cysts. These include:
Ovarian torsion. Cysts that become large can cause the ovary to move. This increases the chance of painful twisting of the ovary (ovarian torsion). If this happens, you might have sudden, severe pelvic pain and nausea and vomiting. Ovarian torsion can also reduce or stop blood flow to the ovary.
Cyst rupture. A cyst that bursts open (ruptures) can cause severe pain and bleeding inside the pelvis. The larger the cyst, the greater the risk of rupture. Vigorous activity that affects the pelvis, such as vaginal sex, also increases the risk of rupture.
Preventions for Ovarian cysts
There's no way to prevent most ovarian cysts. But, regular pelvic exams help ensure that changes in your ovaries are diagnosed as early as possible. Be alert to changes in your monthly cycle. Make a note of unusual menstrual symptoms, especially ones that go on for more than a few cycles. Talk to your health care provider about changes that concern you.
Condition name:Overactive bladder
Overview of Overactive bladder:
Overactive bladder, also called OAB, causes sudden urges to urinate that may be hard to control. There might be a need to pass urine many times during the day and night. There also might be loss of urine that isn't intended, called urgency incontinence.
People with an overactive bladder might feel self-conscious. That can cause them to keep away from others or limit their work and social life. The good news is that it can be treated.
Simple behavior changes might manage symptoms of an overactive bladder. These might include changes in diet, urinating on a certain schedule and using pelvic floor muscles to control the bladder. There also are other treatments to try.
Home Remedies for Overactive bladder:
The following might reduce overactive bladder symptoms:
Not drinking too much or too little. Ask your healthcare professional how much to drink daily. Drinking too much fluid can make your symptoms worse. But not drinking enough can bother the lining of your bladder and increase the urge to urinate.
Limit foods and drinks that might bother your bladder. These include caffeine, alcohol, tea, carbonated drinks, citrus juice and fruit, chocolate, spicy foods, and tomatoes. Try not eating or drinking these to see if it helps.
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing weight may ease your symptoms. Heavier people also are at greater risk of stress urinary incontinence. That also may improve with weight loss.
Manage constipation. Constipation can make urinary incontinence worse. Your healthcare professional might suggest that you add more fiber to your diet. You can add fiber by eating more high-fiber foods or by taking a fiber supplement.
Quit smoking. Smoking can make urinary incontinence worse. If you smoke, ask your healthcare professional for help with quitting.
Wear absorbent pads or underwear. These are designed to take in liquids, control odor and protect your clothing when urine leaks.
Symptoms for Overactive bladder :
If you have an overactive bladder, you may:
Feel a sudden urge to urinate that's hard to control.
Lose urine without meaning to after an urgent need to urinate, called urgency incontinence.
Urinate often. This can mean eight or more times in 24 hours.
Wake up more than twice a night to urinate, called nocturia.
Even if you can get to the toilet in time when you feel an urge to urinate, having to urinate often during day and night can disrupt your life.
There are no Causes available for Overactive bladder in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Overactive bladder:
Aging increases the risk of overactive bladder. So does being female. Conditions such as enlarged prostate and diabetes also can increase the risk.
Many people with declines in thinking ability, such as those who have had a stroke or have Alzheimer's disease, get an overactive bladder. That's because they're less able to notice the symptoms of needing to urinate. Drinking fluids on a schedule, timing and prompting urination, absorbent garments, and bowel programs can help manage the condition.
Some people with an overactive bladder also have trouble with bowel control. Tell your healthcare professional if you're having trouble controlling your bowels.
Complications for Overactive bladder:
Any type of incontinence can affect quality of life. If your overactive bladder symptoms disrupt your life, you might also have:
Anxiety.
Emotional distress or depression.
Sexual problems.
Sleep disturbances and interrupted sleep cycles.
People assigned female at birth who have an overactive bladder also may have a condition called mixed incontinence. This has both urgency and stress incontinence.
Stress incontinence is the sudden loss of urine from physical movement or activity that puts pressure on the bladder. Examples are coughing, sneezing, laughing or exercising.
Preventions for Overactive bladder
These healthy lifestyle choices may reduce your risk of overactive bladder:
Do exercises to make the pelvic floor muscles stronger. These are called Kegel exercises.
Get regular, daily physical activity and exercise.
Limit caffeine and alcohol.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage ongoing, called chronic, conditions, such as diabetes, that might add to overactive bladder symptoms.
Quit smoking.
Condition name:Painful intercourse (dyspareunia)
Overview of Painful intercourse (dyspareunia):
Painful intercourse can happen for reasons that range from structural problems to psychological concerns. Many people have painful intercourse at some point in their lives.
The medical term for painful intercourse is dyspareunia (dis-puh-ROO-nee-uh). It is lasting or recurrent genital pain that occurs just before, during or after sex. Talk with your healthcare professional if you're having painful intercourse. Treatments focus on the cause and can help stop or ease this common problem.
Home Remedies for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia):
To help with pain during sex, you and your partner could try to:
Change positions. If you have sharp pain during thrusting, try different positions, such as being on top. In this position, you might be able to regulate penetration to a depth that feels good to you.
Communicate. Talk about what feels good and what doesn't. If you need your partner to go slow, say so.
Don't rush. Longer foreplay can help stimulate your natural lubrication. You might reduce pain by delaying penetration until you feel fully aroused.
Use lubricants. A personal lubricant can make sex more comfortable. Try different brands until you find one you like.
Symptoms for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia) :
If you have painful intercourse, you might feel:
Pain only at sexual entry, called penetration.
Pain with every penetration, including putting in a tampon.
Deep pain during thrusting.
Burning pain or aching pain.
Throbbing pain lasting hours after sex.
Causes for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia) :
Physical causes of painful intercourse differ, depending on whether the pain happens at entry or with deep thrusting. Emotional factors can be linked to many types of painful intercourse.
Risk Factors for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia):
Many factors can raise the risk of painful intercourse. They include illnesses, surgeries and other medical treatments, and mental health issues.
There are no Complications available for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Painful intercourse (dyspareunia) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pancreatic cancer
Overview of Pancreatic cancer:
Pancreatic cancer is a type of cancer that begins as a growth of cells in the pancreas. The pancreas lies behind the lower part of the stomach. It makes enzymes that help digest food and hormones that help manage blood sugar.
The most common type of pancreatic cancer is pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. This type begins in the cells that line the ducts that carry digestive enzymes out of the pancreas.
Pancreatic cancer rarely is found at its early stages when the chance of curing it is greatest. This is because it often doesn't cause symptoms until after it has spread to other organs.
Your health care team considers the extent of your pancreatic cancer when creating your treatment plan. Treatment options may include surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy or a mix of these.
There are no home remedies available for Pancreatic cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pancreatic cancer :
Pancreatic cancer often doesn't cause symptoms until the disease is advanced. When they happen, signs and symptoms of pancreatic cancer may include:
Belly pain that spreads to the sides or back.
Loss of appetite.
Weight loss.
Yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes, called jaundice.
Light-colored or floating stools.
Dark-colored urine.
Itching.
New diagnosis of diabetes or diabetes that's getting harder to control.
Pain and swelling in an arm or leg, which might be caused by a blood clot.
Tiredness or weakness.
Causes for Pancreatic cancer :
It's not clear what causes pancreatic cancer. Doctors have found some factors that might raise the risk of this type of cancer. These include smoking and having a family history of pancreatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Pancreatic cancer:
Factors that might raise the risk of pancreatic cancer include:
Smoking.
Type 2 diabetes.
Chronic inflammation of the pancreas, called pancreatitis.
Family history of DNA changes that can increase cancer risk. These include changes in the BRCA2 gene, Lynch syndrome and familial atypical multiple mole melanoma (FAMMM) syndrome.
Family history of pancreatic cancer.
Obesity.
Older age. Most people with pancreatic cancer are over 65.
Drinking a lot of alcohol.
Complications for Pancreatic cancer:
As pancreatic cancer progresses, it can cause complications such as:
Weight loss. People with pancreatic cancer might lose weight as the cancer uses more of the body's energy. Nausea and vomiting caused by cancer treatments or a cancer pressing on the stomach might make it hard to eat. Sometimes the body has trouble getting nutrients from food because the pancreas isn't making enough digestive juices.
Jaundice. Pancreatic cancer that blocks the liver's bile duct can cause jaundice. Signs include yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes. Jaundice can cause dark-colored urine and pale-colored stools. Jaundice often occurs without belly pain.
If the bile duct is blocked, a plastic or metal tube called a stent can be put inside it. The stent helps hold the bile duct open. This is done using a procedure called endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, also called ERCP.
During ERCP, a health care professional puts a long tube with a tiny camera, called an endoscope, down the throat. The tube goes through the stomach and into the upper part of the small intestine. The health professional puts a dye into the pancreatic ducts and bile ducts through a small tube that fits through the endoscope. The dye helps the ducts show up on imaging tests. The health professional uses those images to place a stent at the right spot in the duct to help hold it open.
Pain. A growing tumor may press on nerves in your abdomen, causing pain that can become severe. Pain medications can help you feel more comfortable. Treatments, such as radiation and chemotherapy, might help slow tumor growth and provide some pain relief.
When medicines aren't helping, a health care professional might suggest a celiac plexus block. This procedure uses a needle to put alcohol into the nerves that control pain in the belly. The alcohol stops the nerves from sending pain signals to the brain.
Bowel blockage. Pancreatic cancer can grow into or press on the first part of the small intestine, called the duodenum. This can block the flow of digested food from the stomach into the intestines.
A health care professional might suggest putting a tube called a stent in the small intestine to hold it open. Sometimes, it might help to have surgery to place a feeding tube. Or surgery can attach the stomach to a lower part of the intestines where the cancer isn't causing a blockage.
There are no preventive measures available for Pancreatic cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors
Overview of Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors:
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are a rare type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the pancreas. The pancreas is a long, flat gland that sits behind the stomach. It makes enzymes and hormones that help digest food.
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors start from the hormone-producing cells in the pancreas. These cells are called islet cells. Another term for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor is islet cell cancer.
Some pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor cells keep making hormones. These are known as functional tumors. Functional tumors create too much of the given hormone. Examples of functional tumors include insulinoma, gastrinoma and glucagonoma.
Most pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors do not produce an excess amount of hormones. Tumors that don't produce extra hormones are called nonfunctional tumors.
There are no home remedies available for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors :
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors sometimes don't cause symptoms. When they do, symptoms can include:
Heartburn.
Weakness.
Fatigue.
Muscle cramps.
Indigestion.
Diarrhea.
Weight loss.
Skin rash.
Constipation.
Pain in the abdomen or back.
Yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes.
Dizziness.
Blurred vision.
Headaches.
Increased thirst and hunger.
Causes for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors :
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors happen when cells in the pancreas develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes, which doctors call mutations, tell the cells to multiply quickly. The changes let the cells continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This causes many extra cells. The cells might form a mass called a tumor. Sometimes the cells can break away and spread to other organs, such as the liver. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
In pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, the DNA changes happen in hormone-producing cells called islet cells. It's not clear what causes the changes that lead to cancer.
Risk Factors for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors:
Factors that are associated with an increased risk of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors include:
A family history of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. If a family member was diagnosed with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, your risk is increased.
Syndromes present at birth that increase the risk of tumors. Some syndromes that are passed from parents to children can increase the risk of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Examples of these include multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1 (MEN 1), von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease, neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) and tuberous sclerosis. These inherited syndromes are caused by changes in the DNA. These changes allow cells to grow and divide more than needed.
There's no way to prevent pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. If you develop this type of cancer, you didn't do anything to cause it.
There are no Complications available for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pancreatitis
Overview of Pancreatitis:
Pancreatitis is inflammation of the pancreas. Inflammation is immune system activity that can cause swelling, pain, and changes in how an organ or tissues work.
The pancreas is a long, flat gland that's tucked behind the stomach. The pancreas helps the body digest food and regulates blood sugars.
Pancreatitis can be an acute condition. This means it appears suddenly and generally lasts a short time. Chronic pancreatitis is a long-term condition. The damage to the pancreas can get worse over time.
Acute pancreatitis may improve on its own. More-serious disease requires treatment in a hospital and can cause life-threatening complications.
Home Remedies for Pancreatitis:
Once you leave the hospital, you can take steps to continue your recovery from pancreatitis, such as:
Stop drinking alcohol. Even if alcohol was not the likely cause of pancreatitis, it is best to stop drinking alcohol while recovering. If it was the expected cause, stop drinking. If you're unable to stop drinking alcohol on your own, ask your doctor for help. Your doctor can refer you to local programs to help you stop drinking.
Stop smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you can't quit on your own, ask your doctor for help. Medicines and counseling can help you quit smoking.
Choose a low-fat diet. Choose a diet that limits fat and emphasizes fresh fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean protein.
Drink more fluids. Pancreatitis can cause dehydration, so drink more fluids throughout the day. It may help to keep a water bottle or glass of water with you.
Symptoms for Pancreatitis :
Symptoms of pancreatitis may vary. Acute pancreatitis symptoms may include:
Pain in the upper belly.
Pain in the upper belly that radiates to the back.
Tenderness when touching the belly.
Fever.
Rapid pulse.
Upset stomach.
Vomiting.
Chronic pancreatitis signs and symptoms include:
Pain in the upper belly.
Belly pain that feels worse after eating.
Losing weight without trying.
Oily, smelly stools.
Some people with chronic pancreatitis only develop symptoms after they get complications of the disease.
Causes for Pancreatitis :
The pancreas has two major roles. It produces insulin, which helps the body manage and use sugars.
The pancreas also produces dietary juices, called enzymes, that help with digestion. The pancreas makes and stores "turned off" versions of the enzymes. After the pancreas sends the enzymes into the small intestine, they are "turned on" and break down proteins in the small intestine.
If the enzymes are turned on too soon, they can start acting like digestive juices inside the pancreas. The action can irritate, damage or destroy cells. This problem, in turn, leads to immune system responses that cause swelling and other events that affect how the pancreas works.
Several conditions can lead to acute pancreatitis, including:
Blockage in the bile duct caused by gallstones.
Heavy alcohol use.
Certain medicines.
High triglyceride levels in the blood.
High calcium levels in the blood.
Pancreas cancer.
Injuries from trauma or surgery.
Conditions that can lead to chronic pancreatitis include:
Damage from repeated acute pancreatitis.
Heavy alcohol use.
Inherited genes linked to pancreatitis.
High triglyceride levels in the blood.
High calcium levels in the blood.
Sometimes, a cause for pancreatitis is never found. This is known as idiopathic pancreatitis.
Risk Factors for Pancreatitis:
Factors that increase your risk of pancreatitis include:
Excessive alcohol use. Research shows that having four or five drinks a day increases the risk of pancreatitis.
Cigarette smoking. Compared with nonsmokers, smokers are on average three times more likely to develop chronic pancreatitis. Quitting smoking can decrease the risk.
Obesity. People with a body mass index of 30 or higher are at increased risk of pancreatitis.
Diabetes. Having diabetes increases the risk of pancreatitis.
Family history of pancreatitis. A number of genes have been linked to chronic pancreatitis. A family history of the disease is linked to an increased risk, especially when combined with other risk factors.
Complications for Pancreatitis:
Pancreatitis can cause serious complications, including:
Kidney failure. Acute pancreatitis may result in the kidneys not filtering waste from the blood. Artificial filtering, called dialysis, may be needed for short-term or long-term treatment.
Breathing problems. Acute pancreatitis can cause changes in how the lungs work, causing the level of oxygen in the blood to fall to dangerously low levels.
Infection. Acute pancreatitis can make the pancreas vulnerable to infections. Pancreatic infections are serious and require intensive treatment, such as surgery or other procedures to remove the infected tissue.
Pseudocyst. Acute and chronic pancreatitis can cause fluid and debris to collect in a "pocket" in the pancreas, called a pseudocyst. A large pseudocyst that ruptures can cause complications such as internal bleeding and infection.
Malnutrition. With both acute and chronic pancreatitis, the pancreas may not produce enough enzymes for the digestive system. This can lead to malnutrition, diarrhea and weight loss.
Diabetes. Diabetes can develop when chronic pancreatitis damages cells that produce insulin.
Pancreatic cancer. Long-standing inflammation in the pancreas is a risk factor for cancer of the pancreas.
There are no preventive measures available for Pancreatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Panic attacks and panic disorder
Overview of Panic attacks and panic disorder:
A panic attack is a sudden episode of intense fear that triggers severe physical reactions when there is no real danger or apparent cause. Panic attacks can be very frightening. When panic attacks occur, you might think you're losing control, having a heart attack or even dying.
Many people have just one or two panic attacks in their lifetimes, and the problem goes away, perhaps when a stressful situation ends. But if you've had recurrent, unexpected panic attacks and spent long periods in constant fear of another attack, you may have a condition called panic disorder.
Although panic attacks themselves aren't life-threatening, they can be frightening and significantly affect your quality of life. But treatment can be very effective.
Home Remedies for Panic attacks and panic disorder:
While panic attacks and panic disorder benefit from professional treatment, these self-care steps can help you manage symptoms:
Stick to your treatment plan. Facing your fears can be difficult, but treatment can help you feel like you're not a hostage in your own home.
Join a support group. Joining a group for people with panic attacks or anxiety disorders can connect you with others facing the same problems.
Avoid caffeine, alcohol, smoking and recreational drugs. All of these can trigger or worsen panic attacks.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. For example, yoga, deep breathing and progressive muscle relaxation â€” tensing one muscle at a time, and then completely releasing the tension until every muscle in the body is relaxed â€” also may be helpful.
Get physically active. Aerobic activity may have a calming effect on your mood.
Get sufficient sleep. Get enough sleep so that you don't feel drowsy during the day.
Symptoms for Panic attacks and panic disorder :
Panic attacks typically begin suddenly, without warning. They can strike at any time — when you're driving a car, at the mall, sound asleep or in the middle of a business meeting. You may have occasional panic attacks, or they may occur frequently.
Panic attacks have many variations, but symptoms usually peak within minutes. You may feel fatigued and worn out after a panic attack subsides.
Panic attacks typically include some of these signs or symptoms:
Sense of impending doom or danger
Fear of loss of control or death
Rapid, pounding heart rate
Sweating
Trembling or shaking
Shortness of breath or tightness in your throat
Chills
Hot flashes
Nausea
Abdominal cramping
Chest pain
Headache
Dizziness, lightheadedness or faintness
Numbness or tingling sensation
Feeling of unreality or detachment
One of the worst things about panic attacks is the intense fear that you'll have another one. You may fear having panic attacks so much that you avoid certain situations where they may occur.
Causes for Panic attacks and panic disorder :
It's not known what causes panic attacks or panic disorder, but these factors may play a role:
Genetics
Major stress
Temperament that is more sensitive to stress or prone to negative emotions
Certain changes in the way parts of your brain function
Panic attacks may come on suddenly and without warning at first, but over time, they're usually triggered by certain situations.
Some research suggests that your body's natural fight-or-flight response to danger is involved in panic attacks. For example, if a grizzly bear came after you, your body would react instinctively. Your heart rate and breathing would speed up as your body prepared for a life-threatening situation. Many of the same reactions occur in a panic attack. But it's unknown why a panic attack occurs when there's no obvious danger present.
Risk Factors for Panic attacks and panic disorder:
Symptoms of panic disorder often start in the late teens or early adulthood and affect more women than men.
Factors that may increase the risk of developing panic attacks or panic disorder include:
Family history of panic attacks or panic disorder
Major life stress, such as the death or serious illness of a loved one
A traumatic event, such as sexual assault or a serious accident
Major changes in your life, such as a divorce or the addition of a baby
Smoking or excessive caffeine intake
History of childhood physical or sexual abuse
Complications for Panic attacks and panic disorder:
Left untreated, panic attacks and panic disorder can affect almost every area of your life. You may be so afraid of having more panic attacks that you live in a constant state of fear, ruining your quality of life.
Complications that panic attacks may cause or be linked to include:
Development of specific phobias, such as fear of driving or leaving your home
Frequent medical care for health concerns and other medical conditions
Avoidance of social situations
Problems at work or school
Depression, anxiety disorders and other psychiatric disorders
Increased risk of suicide or suicidal thoughts
Alcohol or other substance misuse
Financial problems
For some people, panic disorder may include agoraphobia — avoiding places or situations that cause you anxiety because you fear being unable to escape or get help if you have a panic attack. Or you may become reliant on others to be with you in order to leave your home.
Preventions for Panic attacks and panic disorder
There's no sure way to prevent panic attacks or panic disorder. However, these recommendations may help.
Get treatment for panic attacks as soon as possible to help stop them from getting worse or becoming more frequent.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of panic attack symptoms.
Get regular physical activity, which may play a role in protecting against anxiety.
Condition name:Paraganglioma
Overview of Paraganglioma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Paraganglioma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Paraganglioma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Paraganglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Paraganglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Paraganglioma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Paraganglioma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system
Overview of Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system:
Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system are a group of rare conditions that develop in some people who have cancer. In addition to the nervous system, paraneoplastic syndromes also can affect other organ systems including hormones, skin, blood and joints.
Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system occur when cancer-fighting agents of the immune system also attack parts of the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves or muscle.
Depending on where the nervous system is affected, paraneoplastic syndromes can affect muscle movement, coordination, sensory perception, memory, thinking skills or even sleep.
Sometimes the injury to the nervous system can be reversed with therapy directed toward the cancer and the immune system. But sometimes paraneoplastic syndromes can result in permanent damage to the nervous system.
Treating the cancer and other therapies may prevent further damage and improve symptoms and quality of life.
There are no home remedies available for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system :
Symptoms of paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system can develop relatively quickly, often over days to weeks. They often begin even before a cancer is diagnosed.
Symptoms vary depending on the body part being injured, and may include:
Trouble walking.
Trouble with balance.
Loss of muscle coordination.
Loss of muscle tone or weakness.
Loss of fine motor skills, such as picking up objects.
Trouble swallowing.
Slurred speech or stuttering.
Memory loss and other thinking impairment.
Vision changes.
Trouble sleeping.
Seizures.
Hallucinations.
Movements that can't be controlled.
Causes for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system :
Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system are not caused by cancer cells directly or by the cancer spreading, known as metastasis. They're also not caused by other complications, such as infections or treatment side effects. Instead, the syndromes occur alongside the cancer as a result of the activation of your immune system.
Researchers believe that paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system are caused by cancer-fighting abilities of the immune system. In particular, antibodies and certain white blood cells, known as T cells, are thought to be involved. Instead of attacking only the cancer cells, these immune system agents also attack the healthy cells of the nervous system.
Risk Factors for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system:
Any cancer may be associated with a paraneoplastic syndrome of the nervous system. However, it occurs more often in people with cancers of the lung, ovary, breast, testis or lymphatic system.
There are no Complications available for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Paraneoplastic syndromes of the nervous system in the knowledge baseCondition name:Parkinson's disease
Overview of Parkinson's disease:
Parkinson's disease is a movement disorder of the nervous system that worsens over time. The nervous system is a network of nerve cells that controls many parts of the body, including movement.
Symptoms start slowly. The first symptom may be a barely noticeable tremor in just one hand or sometimes a foot or the jaw. Tremor is common in Parkinson's disease. But the disorder also may cause stiffness, slowing of movement and trouble with balance that raises the risk of falls.
In the early stages of Parkinson's disease, your face may show little or no expression. Your arms may not swing when you walk. Your speech may become soft or slurred. Symptoms get worse over time.
Although Parkinson's disease can't be cured, medicines may help symptoms get better. Sometimes a healthcare professional may suggest surgery to help control parts of the brain. This surgery may help lessen symptoms.
Home Remedies for Parkinson's disease:
Some lifestyle changes may help ease your Parkinson's disease symptoms. But certain medicines can make your symptoms worse. Ask your healthcare team which remedies provide the greatest symptom relief with the fewest side effects.
Healthy eating
No foods are proved to treat Parkinson's disease, but some may help ease symptoms. For example, eating foods high in fiber and drinking plenty of fluids can help prevent constipation.
A balanced diet also provides nutrients, such as omega-3 fatty acids, that may help people with Parkinson's disease.
Exercise
Exercising may improve your muscle strength, walking, flexibility and balance. It also may help decrease depression and anxiety.
Ask your healthcare professional to suggest a physical therapist who can help create an exercise program for you. Exercises that may help include walking, swimming, gardening, dancing, water aerobics and stretching.
To improve your balance and gait, try these tips:
Don't move too quickly.
Put down your heel first when walking.
Look straight ahead, not down, when you walk.
Prevent falls
The following tips may help:
Don't rush.
Don't do too many things at once.
Use handrails.
Use night-lights.
Don't use throw rugs or rolling chairs and keep cords out of the way.
Learn new turning and walking techniques, including landing on your heel first. Also, stand tall and look straight ahead rather than down at your feet when you walk. If you start shuffling, stop. Check your posture and make sure you're standing up straight.
Use a walker or cane if your healthcare professional recommends it.
Daily living activities
These healthcare professionals can help with daily tasks:
Occupational therapist. An occupational therapist can show you ways to help with activities such as dressing, bathing and cooking.
Speech therapist. A speech therapist may be able to help with swallowing and speech problems.
Symptoms for Parkinson's disease :
Parkinson's disease symptoms can be different for everyone. Early symptoms may be mild, and you may not even notice them. Symptoms often begin on one side of the body, then affect both sides. Symptoms are usually worse on one side than the other. Some Parkinson's disease symptoms are similar to those of other disorders.
Parkinson's symptoms may include:
Tremor. This rhythmic shaking usually begins in the hands or fingers. Sometimes tremor begins in the foot or jaw. You may rub your thumb and forefinger back and forth. This is known as a pill-rolling tremor. Your hand may tremble when it's at rest or when you're under stress. You may notice that you shake less when you're doing some sort of task or moving around.
Slowed movement, also called bradykinesia. Parkinson's disease may slow your movement, making simple tasks more difficult. It may be hard to get out of a chair, shower or get dressed. You may have less expression in your face. It may be hard to blink.
Rigid muscles. You may have stiff muscles in any part of your body. Your muscles may feel tense and painful, and your arm movements may be short and jerky.
Poor posture and balance. Your posture may become stooped. You may fall or have balance problems.
Loss of automatic movements. You may be less able to make certain movements that you typically do without thinking, including blinking, smiling or swinging your arms when you walk.
Speech changes. You may speak softly or quickly, slur, or hesitate before talking. Your speech may be flat or monotone, without typical speech patterns.
Writing changes. You may have trouble writing, and your writing may appear cramped and small.
Nonmotor symptoms. These may include depression, anxiety, constipation and sleep problems. They also may include acting out dreams, needing to urinate often, trouble smelling, problems with thinking and memory, and feeling very tired.
Causes for Parkinson's disease :
In Parkinson's disease, nerve cells in the brain called neurons slowly break down or die. Many Parkinson's disease symptoms are caused by a loss of neurons that produce a chemical messenger in the brain. This messenger is called dopamine.
Decreased dopamine leads to irregular brain activity. This causes movement problems and other symptoms of Parkinson's disease. People with Parkinson's disease also lose a chemical messenger called norepinephrine that controls many body functions, such as blood pressure.
The cause of Parkinson's disease is unknown, but several factors seem to play a role, including:
Genes. Specific genetic changes are linked to Parkinson's disease. But these are rare unless many family members have had Parkinson's disease.
Environmental factors. Exposure to certain toxins or other environmental factors may increase the risk of later Parkinson's disease. One example is MPTP, a substance that can be found in illegal drugs and is sometimes sold illegally as "synthetic heroin." Other examples include pesticides and well water used for drinking. But no environmental factor has proved to be a cause.
Many changes happen in the brains of people with Parkinson's disease. Researchers are studying why the changes happen and the roles they play. These changes include:
The presence of Lewy bodies. Clumps of proteins in the brain are associated with Parkinson's disease. These are called Lewy bodies, and researchers believe these proteins hold an important clue to the cause of Parkinson's disease.
Alpha-synuclein found within Lewy bodies. Alpha-synuclein is a protein found in all Lewy bodies. It occurs in a clumped form that cells can't break down. This is currently an important focus among Parkinson's disease researchers. Alpha-synuclein has been found in the spinal fluid of people who later have Parkinson's disease.
Altered mitochondria. Mitochondria are powerhouse compartments inside cells that create most of the body's energy. Changes to mitochondria can cause cell damage. These changes have been found in the brains of people with Parkinson's disease.
Risk Factors for Parkinson's disease:
Risk factors for Parkinson's disease include:
Age. The risk of Parkinson's disease increases with age. Usually, it starts around age 50 or older. The average age of onset is around age 70. Parkinson's disease can occur in younger adults, but it is rare. When people younger than age 50 have the disease, it's known as early-onset Parkinson's disease.
Genetics. Having one or more first-degree relatives, such as parents or siblings, with Parkinson's disease increases your risk. Your risks are still small unless you have many blood relatives with the condition.
Male sex. Men are more likely to develop Parkinson's disease than are women.
Exposure to toxins. Ongoing exposure to herbicides and pesticides may slightly increase your risk of Parkinson's disease.
Complications for Parkinson's disease:
People with Parkinson's disease may have other complications that may be treatable. These may include:
Trouble thinking clearly. Parkinson's disease can affect people's memory, language and reasoning skills. The disease also can lead to dementia or other conditions that affect thinking. These complications usually happen later in Parkinson's disease, and medicines usually have only a modest benefit in managing these symptoms.
Emotional changes and depression. Some people may feel irritable and concerned early in the course of Parkinson's disease. They also may have depression and anxiety. Medicines and other treatment can help with these changes.
Trouble swallowing and chewing. Late-stage Parkinson's disease affects the muscles in the mouth. This causes trouble swallowing and chewing, which can lead to not getting enough nutrients in your diet. If food or saliva collects in the mouth, it can cause choking or drooling.
Sleep problems and sleep disorders. You may wake up often during the night, have nightmares and fall asleep during the day.
Another symptom may be rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder. This involves acting out your dreams. Medicines and other therapies may help your sleep get better.
Other symptoms that can occur include:
Bladder problems. You may have problems such as urgency.
Constipation. You may have a hard time passing stool. You may pass stool fewer than three times a week.
Blood pressure changes. You may feel dizzy or lightheaded or even faint when you stand up due to a sudden drop in blood pressure. This also is called orthostatic hypotension.
Loss of smell. You may fully or partially lose your sense of smell.
Tiredness. You may feel very tired and lack energy, especially late in the day.
Pain. You may have pain or cramps in your muscles and joints.
Sexual symptoms. You may have a decrease in sexual desire or performance.
Preventions for Parkinson's disease
Because the cause of Parkinson's disease is not known, there are no proven ways to prevent it. Research shows that some factors may help protect against it. But scientists don't know for sure. These factors include:
Exercise. Aerobic exercise has been linked to a lower risk of Parkinson's disease.
Caffeine. Some studies show a link between drinking caffeinated beverages such as coffee and green tea and a lower risk of Parkinson's disease.
Medicines. Some medicines, such as ibuprofen and statins, have been linked to a lower risk of the disease.
Condition name:Parotid tumors
Overview of Parotid tumors:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Parotid tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Parotid tumors :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Parotid tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Parotid tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Parotid tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Parotid tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return
Overview of Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Partial anomalous pulmonary venous return in the knowledge baseCondition name:Patellofemoral pain syndrome
Overview of Patellofemoral pain syndrome:
Patellofemoral (puh-tel-o-FEM-uh-rul) pain syndrome is pain at the front of the knee, around the kneecap. The kneecap also is known as the patella. Patellofemoral pain syndrome is sometimes called runner's knee. It's more common in people who run and who play sports that involve running and jumping.
The knee pain often increases when running, walking up or down stairs, sitting for long periods, or squatting. Simple treatments, such as rest and ice, often help. But sometimes patellofemoral pain needs physical therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Patellofemoral pain syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Patellofemoral pain syndrome :
Patellofemoral pain syndrome usually causes a dull, aching pain in the front of the knee. The following can increase the pain:
Walking up or down stairs.
Kneeling or squatting.
Sitting with a bent knee for long periods of time.
Causes for Patellofemoral pain syndrome :
Patellofemoral pain syndrome can have several causes. It's been linked with:
Overuse. Running or jumping sports put repeated stress on the knee joint, which can cause irritation under the kneecap.
Muscle imbalances or weaknesses. Patellofemoral pain can occur when the muscles around the hip and knee don't keep the kneecap in line. Moving the knee inward during a squat has been linked to patellofemoral pain.
Injury. Trauma to the kneecap, such as when the kneecap gets out of place or breaks, has been linked to patellofemoral pain syndrome.
Surgery. Knee surgery can increase the risk of patellofemoral pain. This is especially true of repair to the anterior cruciate ligament using one's own patellar tendon as a graft.
Risk Factors for Patellofemoral pain syndrome:
Factors that can increase your risk include:
Age. Patellofemoral pain syndrome typically affects teens and young adults. Arthritis is more often to blame for knee problems in older people.
Sex. Women are twice as likely as men are to develop patellofemoral pain. This may be because women have wider pelvises. A wider pelvis increases the angle at which the bones in the knee joint meet.
Certain sports. Running and jumping sports can put extra stress on the knees. This is especially true when adding more training.
There are no Complications available for Patellofemoral pain syndrome in the knowledge basePreventions for Patellofemoral pain syndrome
Sometimes knee pain just happens. But certain steps may help prevent the pain.
Build strength. Strong leg and hip muscles help keep the knee balanced during activity. Avoid deep squatting during weight training.
Move safely. Ask a physical therapist about exercises to help you jump, run and turn correctly. It's especially important to strengthen outer hip muscles. This will help keep your knee from caving inward when you squat, land from a jump or step down from a step.
Lose excess pounds. If you're overweight, losing weight relieves stress on the knees.
Warm up. Before running or doing other exercise, warm up with five minutes or so of light activity.
Stretch. Promote flexibility with gentle stretching exercises.
Build up slowly. Don't suddenly increase your workouts.
Mind your shoes. Wear shoes that fit well and are designed for the activity.
Condition name:Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
Overview of Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA):
Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a persistent opening between the two major blood vessels leading from the heart. The heart problem is present from birth. That means it is a congenital heart defect.
An opening called the ductus arteriosus is part of a baby's blood flow system in the womb. It usually closes shortly after birth. If it remains open, it's called a patent ductus arteriosus.
A small patent ductus arteriosus often doesn't cause problems and might never need treatment. However, a large, untreated patent ductus arteriosus can let oxygen-poor blood move the wrong way. This can weaken the heart muscle, causing heart failure and other complications.
Treatment options for a patent ductus arteriosus include regular health checkups, medicines, and a procedure or surgery to close the opening.
Home Remedies for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA):
Anyone born with a patent ductus arteriosus needs to take steps to keep the heart healthy and prevent complications. These tips can help:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease and other heart problems. Quitting is the best way to reduce the risk. If you need help quitting, talk to your provider.
Eat healthy foods. Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Practice good hygiene. Regularly wash your hands and brush and floss your teeth to keep yourself healthy.
Ask about sports restrictions. Some people born with a heart problem may need to limit exercise or sports activities. Ask your care provider which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to reduce and manage stress. If you have anxiety or depression, talk to your provider about strategies to help.
Symptoms for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) :
Patent ductus arteriosus symptoms (PDA) depend on the size of the opening and the person's age. A small PDA might not cause symptoms. Some people don't notice symptoms until adulthood. A large PDA can cause symptoms of heart failure soon after birth.
A large PDA found during infancy or childhood might cause:
Poor eating, which leads to poor growth.
Sweating with crying or eating.
Persistent fast breathing or breathlessness.
Easy tiring.
Rapid heart rate.
Causes for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) :
The exact causes of congenital heart defects are unclear. During the first six weeks of pregnancy, a baby's heart starts to form and beat. The major blood vessels to and from the heart grow. It's during this time that certain heart defects may begin to develop.
Before birth, a temporary opening called the ductus arteriosus is between the two main blood vessels leaving a baby's heart. Those vessels are the aorta and the pulmonary artery. The opening is necessary for a baby's blood flow before birth. It moves blood away from a baby's lungs while they develop. The baby gets oxygen from the mother's blood.
After birth, the ductus arteriosus is no longer needed. It usually closes within 2 to 3 days. But in some infants, the opening doesn't close. When it stays open, it's called a patent ductus arteriosus.
The persistent opening causes too much blood to flow to the baby's lungs and heart. Untreated, the blood pressure in the baby's lungs might increase. The baby's heart might grow larger and get weak.
Risk Factors for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA):
Risk factors for patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) include:
Premature birth. Patent ductus arteriosus occurs more commonly in babies who are born too early than in babies who are born full term.
Family history and other genetic conditions. A family history of heart problems present at birth may increase the risk for a PDA. Babies born with an extra 21st chromosome, a condition called Down syndrome, also are more likely to have this condition.
German measles during pregnancy. Having German measles, also called rubella, during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Being born at a high altitude. Babies born above 8,200 feet (2,499 meters) have a greater risk of a PDA than babies born at lower altitudes.
Being female. Patent ductus arteriosus is twice as common in girls.
Complications for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA):
A small patent ductus arteriosus might not cause complications. Larger, untreated defects could cause:
High blood pressure in the lungs, also called pulmonary hypertension. A large PDA causes irregular blood flow in the heart and lungs. As a result, pressure rises in the pulmonary artery. Over time, the increased pressure damages the smaller blood vessels in the lungs. A life-threatening and permanent type of lung damage called Eisenmenger syndrome may occur.
Heart failure. Symptoms of this serious complication include rapid breathing, often with gasping breaths, and poor weight gain.
Heart infection, called endocarditis. A patent ductus arteriosus can increase the risk of infection of the heart tissue. This infection is called endocarditis. It can be life-threatening.
Preventions for Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA)
There is no known prevention for patent ductus arteriosus. However, it's important to do everything possible to have a healthy pregnancy. Here are some of the basics:
Seek early prenatal care, even before you're pregnant. Quitting smoking, reducing stress, stopping birth control — these are all things to talk to your health care provider about before you get pregnant. Tell your health care provider about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Eat a healthy diet. Include a vitamin supplement that contains folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily before and during pregnancy has been shown to reduce brain and spinal cord problems in the baby. It also may help reduce the risk of heart problems.
Exercise regularly. Work with your health care provider to develop an exercise plan that's right for you.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get recommended vaccines. Update your vaccinations before becoming pregnant. Certain types of infections can be harmful to a developing baby.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar may reduce the risk of certain heart problems before birth.
Condition name:Peanut allergy
Overview of Peanut allergy:
Peanut allergy is a condition that causes the body's germ-fighting immune system to react to peanuts. It's one of the most common causes of a life-threatening allergic reaction to food. This life-threatening reaction is known as anaphylaxis.
Peanut allergy has been increasing in children. Even if you or your child has shown only a mild reaction to peanuts, it's important to talk to a healthcare professional. There is still a risk of a more serious future reaction.
Home Remedies for Peanut allergy:
One of the keys to preventing an allergic reaction is knowing how to avoid the food that causes your symptoms. Follow these steps:
Never assume that a food doesn't contain peanuts. Peanuts may be in foods that surprise you. Always read labels on processed foods to make sure they don't contain peanuts or peanut products. Processed foods are required to clearly state if foods contain any peanuts. Also, labels must state if foods were produced in factories that process peanuts.
Even if you think that you know what's in a food, check the label. Ingredients may change.
Don't ignore a label that says a food was produced in a factory that processes peanuts. Most people with a peanut allergy need to avoid all products that could contain peanuts, even trace amounts.
When in doubt, say "no thanks." At restaurants and social gatherings, there's always a risk of eating peanuts by accident. Many people don't understand how serious an allergic food reaction is. They may not know that a tiny amount of a food can cause a severe reaction. If you are at all worried that a food may contain something you're allergic to, don't try it.
Be prepared for a reaction. Talk with your doctor about carrying emergency medicines in case of a severe reaction.
Avoiding foods that contain peanuts
Peanuts are common. Avoiding foods that contain them can be hard. The following foods often contain peanuts:
Ground or mixed nuts.
Baked goods, such as cookies and pastries.
Ice cream and frozen desserts.
Energy bars.
Cereals and granola.
Grain breads.
Marzipan, a candy made of nuts, egg whites and sugar.
Some foods that may contain peanuts or peanut proteins are less obvious. They might have been made with peanuts or come in contact with them during processing. Some examples include:
Nougat.
Salad dressings.
Chocolate candies, nut butters such as almond butter and sunflower seeds.
Global foods including African, Chinese, Indonesian, Mexican, Thai and Vietnamese dishes.
Foods sold in bakeries and ice cream shops.
Arachis oil, another name for peanut oil.
Pet food.
Symptoms for Peanut allergy :
An allergic response to peanuts usually occurs within minutes after exposure. Peanut allergy signs and symptoms can include:
Skin reactions, such as hives, redness or swelling.
Itching or tingling in or around the mouth and throat.
Digestive problems, such as diarrhea, stomach cramps, nausea or vomiting.
Tightening of the throat.
Shortness of breath or wheezing.
Runny nose.
Causes for Peanut allergy :
Peanut allergy occurs when the immune system flags peanut proteins as harmful. When exposed to peanuts, the immune system releases symptom-causing chemicals into the bloodstream. These chemicals cause an allergic reaction.
Direct and cross-contact with peanuts could cause a reaction:
Direct contact. The most common cause of peanut allergy is eating peanuts or foods that contain peanuts.
Cross-contact. This happens when peanuts get into a product by mistake. It often happens when food is exposed to peanuts during processing or handling.
Inhalation. Breathing in dust or aerosols containing peanuts, such as peanut flour, may cause an allergic reaction.
Risk Factors for Peanut allergy:
It isn't clear why some people develop allergies while others don't. However, people with certain risk factors have a greater chance of developing peanut allergy.
Peanut allergy risk factors include:
Age. Food allergies are most common in children, especially toddlers and infants. As a person grows, the digestive system matures. Then the body is less likely to react to food that triggers allergies.
Past allergy to peanuts. Some children with peanut allergy outgrow it, though it can recur. So be cautious even if you seem to have outgrown peanut allergy.
Other allergies. If you're already allergic to one food, you have a higher risk of being allergic to another. Also, having another type of allergy, such as hay fever, raises your risk of having a food allergy.
Family members with allergies. Your risk of peanut allergy is higher if other allergies are common in your family, especially other food allergies.
Atopic dermatitis. Some people with the skin condition atopic dermatitis, also called eczema, have a food allergy as well.
Complications for Peanut allergy:
Complications of peanut allergy can include anaphylaxis. Children and adults who have a severe peanut allergy are especially at risk of having this life-threatening reaction.
Preventions for Peanut allergy
Studies have shown a strong link between early peanut exposure and lower food allergy risk. In the studies, peanuts were introduced to high-risk babies and children from 4 months to 3 years old. By doing so, their food allergy risk was reduced up to 80%. Children at risk of peanut allergy include those with mild to severe eczema, egg allergy, or both. Before introducing your child to peanuts, discuss the best approach with your child's healthcare professional.
Condition name:Pectus excavatum
Overview of Pectus excavatum:
Pectus excavatum is a condition in which the person's breastbone is sunken into the chest. In severe cases, pectus excavatum can look as if the center of the chest has been scooped out, leaving a deep dent.
While the sunken breastbone is often noticeable shortly after birth, the severity of pectus excavatum typically worsens during the adolescent growth spurt.
Also called funnel chest, pectus excavatum is more common in boys than in girls. Severe cases of pectus excavatum can eventually interfere with the function of the heart and lungs. But even mild cases of pectus excavatum can make children feel self-conscious about their appearance. Surgery can correct the deformity.
There are no home remedies available for Pectus excavatum in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pectus excavatum :
For many people with pectus excavatum, the only sign or symptom is a slight indentation in their chests. In some people, the depth of the indentation worsens in early adolescence and can continue to worsen into adulthood.
In severe cases of pectus excavatum, the breastbone may compress the lungs and heart. Signs and symptoms may include:
Decreased exercise tolerance
Rapid heartbeat or heart palpitations
Recurrent respiratory infections
Wheezing or coughing
Chest pain
Heart murmur
Fatigue
Dizziness
Causes for Pectus excavatum :
While the exact cause of pectus excavatum is unknown, it may be an inherited condition because it sometimes runs in families.
Risk Factors for Pectus excavatum:
Pectus excavatum is more common in boys than in girls. It also occurs more often in people who also have:
Marfan syndrome
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome
Osteogenesis imperfecta
Noonan syndrome
Turner syndrome
Complications for Pectus excavatum:
Severe cases of pectus excavatum can compress the heart and lungs or push the heart over to one side. Even mild cases of pectus excavatum can result in self-image problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Pectus excavatum in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pediatric brain tumors
Overview of Pediatric brain tumors:
Pediatric brain tumors are growths of cells that start in or near the brain in children. The growths, called tumors, can grow to press on nearby parts of the brain. This can cause symptoms, such as headaches and nausea.
Many types of pediatric brain tumors exist. Some grow quickly, and some grow slowly. Some are cancerous, and some aren't cancerous. Noncancerous brain tumors also are called benign brain tumors.
The type of brain tumor a child has helps determine the best treatment plan. Other things your child's healthcare team considers include the tumor's location, whether it has spread beyond the brain, and your child's age and overall health.
Treatment for brain tumors in children is often quite different from treatment for adult brain tumors. For this reason, seek out care at a medical center that has experience caring for children with brain tumors.
There are no home remedies available for Pediatric brain tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pediatric brain tumors :
Pediatric brain tumor symptoms may vary depending on the tumor's location within the brain. Symptoms also might depend on the size of the tumor and how quickly it's growing.
Some of the more common signs and symptoms of pediatric brain tumors include:
Headaches, which may become more frequent and more severe. In children who don't talk, a parent might notice that the child is more irritable than usual.
Nausea and vomiting.
Vision changes, such as double vision. In children who don't talk, a parent might notice that a child squints or covers one eye when trying to look at something.
Other possible signs and symptoms include:
A fuller soft spot on the skull in babies.
Changes in the way the eyes move.
Confusion and irritability.
Difficulty with balance.
Hearing problems.
Memory problems.
Personality or behavior changes.
Seizures, especially in a child who hasn't had a seizure before.
Slurred speech.
Trouble walking.
Trouble swallowing.
Weakness or drooping on one side on the face.
Weakness or loss of sensation in an arm or a leg.
Causes for Pediatric brain tumors :
Most of the time, the cause of a pediatric brain tumor isn't known.
Pediatric brain tumors start when cells in the brain develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In tumor cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the tumor cells to make many more cells quickly. Tumor cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The extra cells might form a mass called a tumor. A tumor can grow and press on nearby brain tissue. Sometimes a growing tumor causes swelling and other changes in the nearby brain tissue.
Some tumor cells develop other DNA changes that turn them into cancer cells. Cancer cells can invade and destroy healthy tissue. Sometimes cancer cells can break away and spread beyond the brain. If brain cancer spreads, it tends to go to the fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. This fluid is called cerebrospinal fluid.
Risk Factors for Pediatric brain tumors:
Factors that may increase the risk of pediatric brain tumors include:
There are no Complications available for Pediatric brain tumors in the knowledge basePreventions for Pediatric brain tumors
There's no way to prevent pediatric brain tumors. If your child develops a brain tumor, you didn't do anything to cause it.
Condition name:Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea
Overview of Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea:
Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea is a sleep disorder in which your child's breathing is partially or completely blocked during sleep. It can happen several times a night. The condition occurs when the upper airway narrows or is blocked during sleep.
There are differences between pediatric obstructive sleep apnea and adult sleep apnea. While adults usually have daytime sleepiness, children are more likely to have behavioral problems. The cause in adults is often obesity, while in children it's often larger than usual adenoids and tonsils. The adenoids are two small pads of tissue found in the back of the nose. The tonsils are two oval-shaped pads in the back of the mouth.
Early diagnosis and treatment are important to prevent complications that can affect children's growth, cognitive development and behavior.
Home Remedies for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea:
Avoid airway irritants and allergens. All children â€” especially those with pediatric obstructive sleep apnea â€” should be kept away from exposure to tobacco smoke or other indoor allergens or pollutants. They can cause airway irritation and congestion.
Weight loss. If your child is obese, a health care professional may recommend weight loss. The health professional can give you and your child diet and nutrition information or refer your child to specialists in managing obesity.
Symptoms for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea :
During sleep, symptoms of pediatric sleep apnea might include:
Snoring.
Pauses in breathing.
Restless sleep.
Snorting, coughing or choking.
Mouth breathing.
Nighttime sweating.
Bed-wetting.
Sleep terrors.
Infants and young children with obstructive sleep apnea don't always snore. They might just have disturbed sleep.
During the day, children with sleep apnea might:
Perform poorly in school.
Have trouble paying attention.
Have learning problems.
Have behavioral problems.
Have poor weight gain.
Be hyperactive.
Causes for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea :
In adults, obesity is a common factor in obstructive sleep apnea. While obesity plays a role in the disorder in some children, obstructive sleep apnea is more commonly related to enlarged tonsils and adenoids. Other underlying factors may include being born with a birth defect related to the shape of the face or head. They also may include neuromuscular disorders that affect the way muscles function because of problems with the nerves and muscles in the body.
Risk Factors for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea:
Besides obesity, other risk factors for pediatric sleep apnea include having:
Down syndrome.
Birth defects in the skull or face.
Cerebral palsy.
Sickle cell disease.
Neuromuscular disease.
History of low birth weight.
Family history of obstructive sleep apnea.
Complications for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea:
Rarely, pediatric obstructive sleep apnea can cause a failure to grow in infants and young children. Children with obstructive sleep apnea who don't receive treatment also may be at an increased risk of later developing high blood pressure, high cholesterol, prediabetes, and other heart and blood vessel conditions. Very rarely, children who have certain genetic conditions can have serious symptoms of pediatric obstructive sleep apnea that can lead to death. However, complications can be managed with treatment.
There are no preventive measures available for Pediatric obstructive sleep apnea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pediatric white blood cell disorders
Overview of Pediatric white blood cell disorders:
Your body produces white blood cells (leukocytes), which help fight bacterial infections, viruses and fungi. If your child has too few or too many white blood cells, in general, here's what it means:
Low white blood cell count (leukopenia) means having too few leukocytes circulating in the blood. A long-term low white blood cell count increases the risk of infections and may be caused by a number of different diseases and conditions.
High white blood cell count (leukocytosis) means having too many leukocytes circulating in the blood, usually from having an infection. A number of different diseases and conditions may cause a long-term high white blood cell count.
There are several types of white blood cells, each with a different disease-fighting activity. The main types are:
Neutrophils
Lymphocytes
Monocytes
Eosinophils
Basophils
White blood cell disorders involving a specific type of white blood cell include:
Neutropenia. Neutropenia (noo-troe-PEE-nee-uh) is a low number of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that fights infections of fungi and bacteria. Neutropenia can be caused by cancer or by diseases, disorders or infections that damage bone marrow. In addition, certain medications and other diseases or conditions can cause neutropenia.
Lymphocytopenia. Lymphocytopenia (lim-foe-sie-toe-PEE-nee-uh) is a decrease in lymphocytes, the type of white blood cell that, among other tasks, protects your body from viral infections. Lymphocytopenia can result from an inherited syndrome, be associated with certain diseases, or be a side effect from medications or other treatments.
Monocyte disorders. Monocytes help get rid of dead or damaged tissue and regulate your body's immune response. Infections, cancer, autoimmune diseases and other conditions can cause an increased number of monocytes. A decreased number can be the result of toxins, chemotherapy and other causes.
Eosinophilia. Eosinophilia (e-o-sin-o-FIL-e-uh) is a higher than normal number of eosinophil cells, a type of disease-fighting white blood cell. Eosinophilia can be caused by a variety of conditions and disorders, most commonly by an allergic reaction or a parasitic infection.
Basophilic disorders. Basophils account for only a small number of white blood cells, but they have a role in wound healing, infection and allergic reactions. A decreased number of basophils can result from allergic reactions or infections. An increased number can be caused by certain types of blood cancer or other disorders.
There are no home remedies available for Pediatric white blood cell disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pediatric white blood cell disorders :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Pediatric white blood cell disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Pediatric white blood cell disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Pediatric white blood cell disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pediatric white blood cell disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pelvic organ prolapse
Overview of Pelvic organ prolapse:
Pelvic organ prolapse is when one or more pelvic organs drop from their position. This makes a bulge in the vagina, called a prolapse.
The muscles and connective tissues of the pelvic floor typically hold the pelvic organs in place. Pelvic organs include the vagina, bladder, uterus, urethra and rectum. Pelvic organ prolapse happens when the muscles and tissues of the pelvic floor weaken. This may be due to pregnancy, childbirth or menopause.
Pelvic organ prolapse can be treated. Often, nonsurgical treatment helps. Sometimes, surgery might be needed to put the pelvic organs back in place.
Home Remedies for Pelvic organ prolapse:
Pelvic organ prolapse is the result of weakened pelvic floor tissues that make a bulge. There are things you can do to help stop weakness in these tissues. These steps can help keep your condition from getting worse. They also may help keep symptoms from coming back after a surgical repair. Try the following:
Quit smoking.
Treat conditions that might put strain on the pelvic floor, such as long-term cough or constipation.
Lose weight.
Strengthen your core and your pelvic floor.
Don't lift heavy objects.
Don't strain during bowel movements.
Symptoms for Pelvic organ prolapse :
Sometimes, pelvic organ prolapse has no symptoms. When symptoms happen, they might include:
Seeing or feeling a bulge of tissue at or beyond the opening of the vagina.
Pelvic pressure, heaviness or pain.
Lower back pain.
Not being able to keep in a tampon.
Urinary changes. These might include urinating more, feeling an urgent need to urinate, not being able to empty the bladder all the way or having a weak urine stream.
Bowel changes, such as not emptying stool all the way or having to put fingers in the vagina to support the bulge to be able to pass stool. This is called splinting.
Sexual issues, such as pain with sex.
Weakness of the pelvic floor often affects more than one area. For instance, if one of your pelvic organs is prolapsed, you're more likely to have another type of pelvic organ prolapse.
Causes for Pelvic organ prolapse :
The cause of pelvic organ prolapse is the weakening of the tissues and the muscles that support the pelvic organs. The most common cause is having a baby vaginally.
Risk Factors for Pelvic organ prolapse:
Risk factors for pelvic organ prolapse include:
Having more than one baby, vaginal delivery, high birth weight babies and deliveries using tools.
Being older.
Being obese.
Having had pelvic surgery.
Straining from an ongoing cough, such as from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ongoing constipation or ongoing heavy lifting.
Having a family history of pelvic organ prolapse or connective tissue conditions.
There are no Complications available for Pelvic organ prolapse in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pelvic organ prolapse in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pemphigus
Overview of Pemphigus:
Pemphigus is a disease that causes blisters and sores on the skin or mucous membranes, such as in the mouth or on the genitals.
Pemphigus can occur at any age, but it's most often seen in people who are middle-aged or older. It tends to be a long-lasting (chronic) condition, and some types can be life-threatening without treatment. Treatment with medication usually controls it.
Home Remedies for Pemphigus:
Here are steps you can take to improve your skin and overall health:
Follow your doctor's wound care instructions. Taking good care of your wounds can help prevent infection and scarring. Your doctor may have recommendations for over-the-counter creams that help control pain.
Gently wash your skin. Use mild soap and apply moisturizer afterward.
Protect your skin. Avoid activities that may hurt the skin.
Avoid certain foods. Blisters in your mouth could be triggered or irritated by spicy, hot or abrasive foods.
Minimize sun exposure. Ultraviolet light may trigger new blisters.
Talk with your dentist about maintaining good oral health. If you have blisters in your mouth, it may be difficult to brush your teeth properly. Ask your dentist what you can do to protect your oral health.
Symptoms for Pemphigus :
Pemphigus causes blisters on your skin and mucous membranes. The blisters rupture easily, leaving open sores, which may ooze and become infected.
The signs and symptoms of two common types of pemphigus are as follows:
Pemphigus vulgaris. This type usually begins with blisters in your mouth and then on your skin or genital mucous membranes. The blisters typically are painful but don't itch. Blisters in your mouth or throat may make it hard to swallow and eat.
Pemphigus foliaceus. This type causes blisters on the chest, back and shoulders. The blisters tend to be more itchy than painful. Pemphigus foliaceus doesn't cause mouth blisters.
Pemphigus is distinct from bullous pemphigoid, which is a blistering skin condition that affects older adults and may cause death.
Causes for Pemphigus :
Pemphigus is an autoimmune disorder. Normally, your immune system produces antibodies to fight off harmful invaders, such viruses and bacteria. But in pemphigus, the body produces antibodies that damage cells of your skin and mucous membranes.
Pemphigus isn't contagious. In most cases, it's unknown what triggers the disease.
Rarely, pemphigus is triggered by the use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, penicillamine and other drugs.
Risk Factors for Pemphigus:
Your risk of pemphigus increases if you're middle-aged or older. The condition tends to be more common in people of Middle Eastern or Jewish descent.
Complications for Pemphigus:
Possible complications of pemphigus include:
Infection of your skin
Infection that spreads to your bloodstream (sepsis)
Malnutrition, because painful mouth sores make it difficult to eat
Medication side effects, such as high blood pressure and infection
Death, if certain types of pemphigus are left untreated
There are no preventive measures available for Pemphigus in the knowledge baseCondition name:Peptic ulcer
Overview of Peptic ulcer:
Peptic ulcers are open sores on the inner lining of the stomach and the upper part of the small intestine. The most common symptom of a peptic ulcer is stomach pain.
Peptic ulcers include:
Gastric ulcers, which appear on the inside of the stomach.
Duodenal ulcers, which appear on the inside of the upper part of the small intestine, called the duodenum.
The most common causes of peptic ulcers are infection with the germ Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) and long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Stress and spicy foods do not cause peptic ulcers. But they can make symptoms worse.
Home Remedies for Peptic ulcer:
You may find relief from the pain of a stomach ulcer if you:
Switch pain relievers. If you use pain relievers regularly, ask your healthcare professional whether acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) might work for you.
Control stress. Stress may make the symptoms of a peptic ulcer worse. Think about what causes your stress and what you can do to ease it. There are many ways to cope with stress. These include exercise, spending time with friends, deep breathing, writing in a journal or meditating.
Don't smoke. Smoking may harm the lining of the stomach, raising the chance of getting an ulcer. Smoking also increases stomach acid.
Limit or avoid alcohol. Too much alcohol can irritate and eat away the mucous lining in your stomach and intestines. This can cause the lining to inflame and bleed.
Symptoms for Peptic ulcer :
Many people with peptic ulcers don't have symptoms. If there are symptoms, they may include:
Dull or burning stomach pain. For some people, pain may be worse between meals and at night. For others, it may be worse after eating.
Feeling of fullness or bloating.
Belching.
Heartburn.
Nausea.
Peptic ulcers can cause bleeding from the ulcer. Then symptoms might include:
Vomiting blood, which may appear red or black.
Having dark blood in stools, or stools that are black or tarry.
Feeling dizzy or fainting.
Causes for Peptic ulcer :
Peptic ulcers happen when acid in the organs that food travels through, called the digestive tract, eats away at the inner surface of the stomach or small intestine. The acid can create a painful open sore that may bleed.
Your digestive tract is coated with a mucous layer that most often protects against acid. But if the amount of acid increases or the amount of mucus decreases, you could develop an ulcer.
Common causes include:
Helicobacter pylori. This germ lives in the mucous layer that covers and protects tissues that line the stomach and small intestine. The H. pylori germ often causes no problems. But it can cause swelling and irritation, called inflammation, of the stomach's inner layer. When this happens, it can cause an ulcer.
It's not clear how H. pylori infection spreads. It may go from person to person by close contact, such as kissing. People also can contract H. pylori through food and water.
Regular use of certain pain relievers. Taking aspirin or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) over time can irritate or inflame the lining of the stomach and small intestine. These medicines include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve, Anaprox DS, others), ketoprofen and others. They do not include acetaminophen (Tylenol, others).
Risk Factors for Peptic ulcer:
If you take NSAIDs, the following factors may increase your risk of peptic ulcers:
Old age. This includes people older than 60.
Prior peptic ulcer. People who have had a peptic ulcer before have a higher risk of having another one.
NSAIDs use. Taking high doses of NSAIDs or two or more NSAIDs increases the risk. So does taking NSAIDS with certain other medicines.
These include other pain relievers, steroids, blood thinners, certain antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and medicines to treat the bone-thinning disease osteoporosis. These include alendronate (Fosamax, Binosto) and risedronate (Actonel, Atelvia).
Factors that don't cause peptic ulcers but can make them worse include:
Smoking. This may increase the risk of peptic ulcers in people who are infected with H. pylori.
Drinking alcohol. Alcohol can irritate and erode the mucous lining of the stomach. And it increases stomach acid.
Having untreated stress.
Eating spicy foods.
Complications for Peptic ulcer:
Untreated peptic ulcers can cause:
Bleeding in the stomach or duodenum. Bleeding can be a slow blood loss that leads to too few red blood cells, called anemia. Or you can lose enough blood so that you need to be in a hospital or get blood from a donor. Severe blood loss may cause black or bloody vomit or black or bloody stools.
A hole, called a perforation, in the stomach wall. Peptic ulcers can eat a hole through the wall of your stomach or small intestine. This puts you at risk of infection of your abdomen, called peritonitis.
Blockage. Peptic ulcers can keep food from going through the digestive tract. The blockage can make you feel full easily and cause you to vomit and lose weight.
Stomach cancer. Studies have shown that people infected with H. pylori have an increased risk of stomach cancer.
Preventions for Peptic ulcer
To help prevent peptic ulcers:
Take care with pain relievers. If you often use NSAIDs, which can increase your risk of peptic ulcer, take steps to reduce your risk of stomach problems. For instance, take pain relievers with meals.
Work with your healthcare professional to find the lowest dose that gives you pain relief. Don't drink alcohol with pain relievers. Together, they can increase your risk of stomach upset.
If you need an NSAID, you also may need to take other medicines to help protect your stomach. These include antacids, proton pump inhibitors, acid blockers or cytoprotective agents.
A class of NSAIDs called COX-2 inhibitors may be less likely to cause peptic ulcers. But these medicines may increase the risk of heart attack.
If you smoke, find a way to quit. Quitting smoking can lower your risk of peptic ulcer. Talk with your healthcare professional for help with quitting.
Condition name:Pericarditis
Overview of Pericarditis:
Pericarditis is swelling and irritation of the thin, saclike tissue surrounding the heart. This tissue is called the pericardium. Pericarditis often causes sharp chest pain. The chest pain occurs when the irritated layers of the pericardium rub against each other.
Pericarditis often is mild. It may go away without treatment. Treatment for more-serious symptoms can include medicines and, very rarely, surgery. When healthcare professionals find and treat pericarditis early, that may help lower the risk of long-term complications from pericarditis.
Home Remedies for Pericarditis:
Lifestyle and home remedies for mild pericarditis include rest and pain medicines sold without a prescription. If your healthcare professional recommends pain medicines, take them as directed.
While you recover, do not take part in strenuous physical activity and competitive sports. Such activity can trigger pericarditis symptoms. Ask your healthcare professional how long you need to rest.
Symptoms for Pericarditis :
Chest pain is the most common symptom of pericarditis. It usually feels sharp or stabbing. But some people have dull, achy or pressure-like chest pain.
Most often, pericarditis pain is felt behind the breastbone or on the left side of the chest. The pain may:
Spread to the left shoulder and neck, or to both shoulders.
Get worse when coughing, lying down or taking a deep breath.
Get better when sitting up or leaning forward.
Other symptoms of pericarditis can include:
Cough.
Fatigue or general feeling of weakness or being sick.
Swelling of the legs or feet.
Low-grade fever.
Pounding or racing heartbeat, also called heart palpitations.
Shortness of breath when lying down.
Swelling of the belly, also called the abdomen.
The specific symptoms depend on the type of pericarditis. Pericarditis is grouped into different categories, according to the pattern of symptoms and how long symptoms last.
Acute pericarditis begins suddenly but doesn't last longer than four weeks. Future episodes can occur. It may be hard to tell the difference between acute pericarditis and pain due to a heart attack.
Recurrent pericarditis occurs about 4 to 6 weeks after a bout of acute pericarditis. No symptoms happen in between.
Incessant pericarditis lasts about 4 to 6 weeks but less than three months. The symptoms continue over this whole time.
Chronic constrictive pericarditis usually develops slowly and lasts longer than three months.
Causes for Pericarditis :
The cause of pericarditis is often hard to determine. A cause may not be found. When this happens, it's called idiopathic pericarditis.
Pericarditis causes can include:
Immune system response after heart damage due to a heart attack or heart surgery. Other names for this include Dressler syndrome, post-myocardial infarction syndrome and post-cardiac injury syndrome.
Infections, such as those caused by viruses.
Injury to the heart or chest.
Lupus.
Rheumatoid arthritis.
Other long-term health conditions, including kidney failure and cancer.
Some medicines, such as the seizure treatment phenytoin (Dilantin) and medicine called procainamide to treat an irregular heartbeat.
There are no Risk Factors available for Pericarditis in the knowledge baseComplications for Pericarditis:
When pericarditis is found and treated early, the risk of complications usually becomes lower. Complications of pericarditis can include:
Fluid buildup around the heart, also called pericardial effusion. The fluid buildup can lead to further heart complications.
Thickening and scarring of the heart lining, also called constrictive pericarditis. Some people with long-term pericarditis develop permanent thickening and scarring of the pericardium. The changes prevent the heart from filling and emptying properly. This complication often leads to severe swelling of the legs and abdomen, and shortness of breath.
Pressure on the heart due to fluid buildup, also called cardiac tamponade. This life-threatening condition prevents the heart from filling properly. Less blood leaves the heart, causing a large drop in blood pressure. Cardiac tamponade requires emergency treatment.
Preventions for Pericarditis
There's no specific way to prevent pericarditis. But you can take these steps to prevent infections, which might help lower the risk of heart inflammation:
Stay away from people who have a viral or flu-like illness until they've recovered. If you're sick with symptoms of a viral infection, try not to expose others. For instance, cover your mouth when you sneeze or cough.
Follow good hygiene. Regular hand-washing can help prevent spreading illness. Scrub your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
Get recommended vaccines. Stay up to date on the recommended vaccines, including those that protect against COVID-19, rubella and influenza. These are examples of viral diseases that can cause inflammation of the heart muscle, called myocarditis. Myocarditis and pericarditis can happen together due to a viral infection. Rarely, the COVID-19 vaccine can cause pericarditis and myocarditis, especially in males ages 12 through 17. Talk to your healthcare professional about the benefits and risks of vaccines.
Condition name:Perimenopause
Overview of Perimenopause:
Perimenopause means "around menopause" and refers to the time during which your body makes the natural transition to menopause, marking the end of the reproductive years. Perimenopause is also called the menopausal transition.
Women start perimenopause at different ages. You may notice signs of progression toward menopause, such as menstrual irregularity, sometime in your 40s. But some women notice changes as early as their mid-30s.
The level of estrogen — the main female hormone — in your body rises and falls unevenly during perimenopause. Your menstrual cycles may lengthen or shorten, and you may begin having menstrual cycles in which your ovaries don't release an egg (ovulate). You may also experience menopause-like symptoms, such as hot flashes, sleep problems and vaginal dryness. Treatments are available to help ease these symptoms.
Once you've gone through 12 consecutive months without a menstrual period, you've officially reached menopause, and the perimenopause period is over.
Home Remedies for Perimenopause:
Making these healthy lifestyle choices may help ease some symptoms of perimenopause and promote good health as you age:
Ease vaginal discomfort. Use over-the-counter, water-based vaginal lubricants (Astroglide, K-Y Liquid, others) or moisturizers (Replens, Vagisil Prohydrate, others). Choose products that don't contain glycerin, which can cause burning or irritation in women who are sensitive to that chemical. Staying sexually active also helps by increasing blood flow to the vagina.
Eat healthy. Because your risk of osteoporosis and heart disease increases at this time, a healthy diet is more important than ever. Adopt a low-fat, high-fiber diet that's rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Add calcium-rich foods. Avoid alcohol and caffeine if they seem to trigger hot flashes. Ask your doctor if you should also take a calcium supplement and if so, what type and how much â€” also ask if you need more vitamin D, which helps your body absorb calcium.
Be active. Regular exercise and physical activity helps prevent weight gain, improves your sleep and elevates your mood. Try to exercise for 30 minutes or more on most days of the week, although not right before bedtime. Regular exercise has been shown to reduce hip fracture risk in older women and to strengthen bone density.
Get enough sleep. Try to keep a consistent sleep schedule. Avoid caffeine, which can make it hard to get to sleep, and avoid drinking too much alcohol, which can interrupt sleep.
Practice stress-reduction techniques. Practiced regularly, stress-reduction techniques, such as meditation or yoga, can promote relaxation and good health throughout your lifetime, but they may be particularly helpful during the menopausal transition.
Symptoms for Perimenopause :
Throughout the menopausal transition, some subtle — and some not-so-subtle — changes in your body may take place. You might experience:
Irregular periods. As ovulation becomes more unpredictable, the length of time between periods may be longer or shorter, your flow may be light to heavy, and you may skip some periods. If you have a persistent change of seven days or more in the length of your menstrual cycle, you may be in early perimenopause. If you have a space of 60 days or more between periods, you're likely in late perimenopause.
Hot flashes and sleep problems. Hot flashes are common during perimenopause. The intensity, length and frequency vary. Sleep problems are often due to hot flashes or night sweats, but sometimes sleep becomes unpredictable even without them.
Mood changes. Mood swings, irritability or increased risk of depression may happen during perimenopause. The cause of these symptoms may be sleep disruption associated with hot flashes. Mood changes may also be caused by factors not related to the hormonal changes of perimenopause.
Vaginal and bladder problems. When estrogen levels diminish, your vaginal tissues may lose lubrication and elasticity, making intercourse painful. Low estrogen may also leave you more vulnerable to urinary or vaginal infections. Loss of tissue tone may contribute to urinary incontinence.
Decreasing fertility. As ovulation becomes irregular, your ability to conceive decreases. However, as long as you're having periods, pregnancy is still possible. If you wish to avoid pregnancy, use birth control until you've had no periods for 12 months.
Changes in sexual function. During perimenopause, sexual arousal and desire may change. But if you had satisfactory sexual intimacy before menopause, this will likely continue through perimenopause and beyond.
Loss of bone. With declining estrogen levels, you start to lose bone more quickly than you replace it, increasing your risk of osteoporosis — a disease that causes fragile bones.
Changing cholesterol levels. Declining estrogen levels may lead to unfavorable changes in your blood cholesterol levels, including an increase in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol — the "bad" cholesterol — which contributes to an increased risk of heart disease. At the same time, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol — the "good" cholesterol — decreases in many women as they age, which also increases the risk of heart disease.
Causes for Perimenopause :
As you go through perimenopause, your body's production of estrogen and progesterone, key female hormones, rises and falls. Many of the changes you experience during perimenopause are a result of decreasing estrogen.
Risk Factors for Perimenopause:
Menopause is a normal phase in life. But it may occur earlier in some women than in others. Although not always conclusive, some evidence suggests that certain factors may make it more likely that you start perimenopause at an earlier age, including:
Smoking. The onset of menopause occurs 1 to 2 years earlier in women who smoke than in women who don't smoke.
Family history. Women with a family history of early menopause may experience early menopause themselves.
Cancer treatment. Treatment for cancer with chemotherapy or pelvic radiation therapy has been linked to early menopause.
Hysterectomy. A hysterectomy that removes your uterus, but not your ovaries, usually doesn't cause menopause. Although you no longer have periods, your ovaries still produce estrogen. But such surgery may cause menopause to occur earlier than average. Also, if you have one ovary removed, the remaining ovary might stop working sooner than expected.
Complications for Perimenopause:
Irregular periods are a hallmark of perimenopause. Most of the time this is normal and nothing to be concerned about. However, see your doctor if:
Bleeding is extremely heavy — you're changing tampons or pads every hour or two for two or more hours
Bleeding lasts longer than seven days
Bleeding occurs between periods
Periods regularly occur less than 21 days apart
Signs such as these may mean there's a problem with your reproductive system that requires diagnosis and treatment.
There are no preventive measures available for Perimenopause in the knowledge baseCondition name:Periodontitis
Overview of Periodontitis:
Periodontitis (per-e-o-don-TIE-tis), also called gum disease, is a serious gum infection that damages the soft tissue around teeth. Without treatment, periodontitis can destroy the bone that supports your teeth. This can cause teeth to loosen or lead to tooth loss.
Periodontitis is common but can usually be prevented. It's often the result of not taking care of your mouth and teeth. To help prevent periodontitis or improve your chance of successful treatment, brush at least twice a day, floss daily and get regular dental checkups.
Home Remedies for Periodontitis:
Try these measures to reduce or prevent periodontitis:
Brush your teeth twice a day or, better yet, after every meal or snack.
Use a soft toothbrush and replace it at least every three months.
Consider using an electric toothbrush, which may be more effective at removing plaque and tartar.
Floss every day. If it's hard to use standard dental floss, try a floss holder. Other options include interdental brushes, water flossers or interdental cleaning aids designed to clean between your teeth. Talk with your dentist or dental hygienist about what would work best for you.
Use a mouth rinse to help reduce plaque between your teeth, if recommended by your dentist.
Get regular professional dental cleanings on a schedule recommended by your dentist.
Don't smoke or chew tobacco.
Symptoms for Periodontitis :
Healthy gums are firm and fit snugly around teeth. The color of healthy gums can vary. They may range from light pink in some people to dark pink and brown in others.
Symptoms of periodontitis can include:
Swollen or puffy gums.
Bright red, dark red or dark purple gums.
Gums that feel tender when touched.
Gums that bleed easily.
A toothbrush that looks pink after brushing your teeth.
Spitting out blood when brushing or flossing your teeth.
Bad breath that won't go away.
Pus between your teeth and gums.
Loose teeth or loss of teeth.
Painful chewing.
New spaces that develop between your teeth that look like black triangles.
Gums that pull away from your teeth, making your teeth look longer than usual, called receding gums.
A change in the way your teeth fit together when you bite.
Causes for Periodontitis :
In most cases, the development of periodontitis starts with plaque. Plaque is a sticky film mainly made up of bacteria. If not treated, here's how plaque can advance over time to periodontitis:
Plaque forms on your teeth when starches and sugars in food interact with bacteria commonly found in your mouth. Brushing your teeth twice a day and flossing once a day removes plaque, but plaque quickly comes back.
Plaque can harden under your gumline into tartar if it stays on your teeth. Tartar is more difficult to remove. You can't get rid of it by brushing and flossing — you need a professional dental cleaning to remove it. Because plaque and tartar are filled with bacteria, the longer they stay on your teeth, the more damage they can do.
Plaque can cause gingivitis, the mildest form of gum disease. Gingivitis is irritation and swelling of the gum tissue around the base of your teeth. Gingiva is another word for gum tissue. Gingivitis can be reversed with professional treatment and good home oral care, but only if treated early before you have bone loss.
Ongoing gum irritation and swelling, called inflammation, can cause periodontitis. Eventually this causes deep pockets to form between your gums and teeth. These pockets fill with plaque, tartar and bacteria and become deeper over time. If not treated, these deep infections cause a loss of tissue and bone. Eventually you may lose one or more teeth. Also, ongoing inflammation can put a strain on your immune system, causing other health problems.
Risk Factors for Periodontitis:
Factors that can increase your risk of periodontitis include:
Gingivitis.
Poor oral health care habits.
Smoking or chewing tobacco.
Hormonal changes, such as those related to pregnancy or menopause.
Recreational drug use, such as smoking marijuana or vaping.
Obesity.
Poor nutrition, including a low vitamin C level.
Genetics.
Certain medicines that cause dry mouth or gum changes.
Conditions that lower immunity, such as leukemia, HIV/AIDS and cancer treatment.
Certain diseases, such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis and Crohn's disease.
Complications for Periodontitis:
Periodontitis can cause tooth loss. The bacteria that cause periodontitis can enter your bloodstream through gum tissue, possibly affecting other parts of your body. For example, periodontitis is linked with respiratory disease, rheumatoid arthritis, coronary artery disease, preterm birth and low birth weight, and problems controlling blood sugar in diabetes.
Preventions for Periodontitis
The best way to prevent periodontitis is to get into the habit of taking good care of your mouth and teeth. Start this routine at a young age and keep it throughout life.
Good oral care. This means brushing your teeth for two minutes at least twice a day — in the morning and before going to bed — and flossing at least once a day. Flossing before you brush allows you to clean away the loosened food bits and bacteria. Good oral care keeps your teeth and gums clean and removes the bacteria that cause periodontal disease.
Regular dental visits. See your dentist regularly for cleanings, usually every 6 to 12 months. If you have risk factors that increase your chance of developing periodontitis — such as having dry mouth, taking certain medicines or smoking — you may need professional cleaning more often.
Condition name:Peripheral artery disease (PAD)
Overview of Peripheral artery disease (PAD):
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a common condition in which narrowed arteries reduce blood flow to the arms or legs.
This condition also may be called peripheral arterial disease.
In PAD, the legs or arms — usually the legs — don't get enough blood flow to keep up with demand. This may cause leg pain when walking, called claudication, and other symptoms.
Peripheral artery disease is usually a sign of a buildup of fatty deposits in the arteries, a condition called atherosclerosis.
Treatment for PAD includes exercising, eating healthy foods, and not smoking or using tobacco.
Home Remedies for Peripheral artery disease (PAD):
There are things you can do to help manage peripheral artery disease (PAD). Try these tips to manage PAD and stop symptoms from getting worse:
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking damages the arteries. It increases the risk of peripheral artery disease. If you have PAD, smoking can make the condition worse. If you smoke and need help quitting, ask your care team about methods that can help.
Get regular exercise. Regular exercise is an important part of peripheral artery disease (PAD) treatment. Exercise helps improve blood flow to the arms and legs. So it can improve symptoms of PAD.
Usually, healthcare professionals recommend supervised exercise therapy for people with PAD. It's a program of exercise and education. It can help increase the distance you can walk pain-free.
Eat nutritious foods. Choose plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Reduce sugar, salt and saturated fats.
Check medicine labels. Products that contain pseudoephedrine (Advil Cold and Sinus, Claritin D, others) are often used to treat a stuffy nose due to allergies or colds. But this ingredient tightens blood vessels. It may increase PAD symptoms.
Check leg position. Try sleeping with the head of the bed raised a few inches. Keeping the legs below the level of the heart usually reduces pain. Some people find that hanging their legs over the edge of the bed or walking may temporarily reduce leg pain.
Foot care
It's important to take good care of your feet. PAD can make it harder for cuts and sores on the lower legs and feet to heal. This is especially true if you have PAD and diabetes.
Here is how to properly care for your feet:
Wash your feet every day. Dry them completely.
Use moisturizer on the feet to prevent cracks that can lead to infection. But don't moisturize between the toes. This can help fungus grow.
Wear thick, dry socks and well-fitting shoes.
Quickly treat any fungal infections of the feet, such as athlete's foot.
Take care when trimming your toenails.
Check your feet daily for cuts, sores or other injuries. See a healthcare professional if you find any.
Have a foot doctor, called a podiatrist, treat bunions, corns or calluses.
Symptoms for Peripheral artery disease (PAD) :
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) may not cause symptoms, or symptoms may be mild. PAD symptoms include:
Leg pain when walking.
Muscle pain or cramping in the arms or legs, often in the calf.
Muscle pain in the arms or legs that begins with exercise and ends with rest.
Painful cramping in one or both of the hips, thighs or calves after walking or climbing stairs or other activities.
Pain when using the arms, such as aching and cramping when knitting or writing.
Coldness in the lower leg or foot, especially when compared with the other side.
Leg numbness or weakness.
No pulse or a weak pulse in the legs or feet.
The muscle pain in peripheral artery disease may:
Be mild to extreme.
Wake you up from sleep.
Make it hard to walk or exercise.
Occur during rest or when lying down if the condition is severe.
Other symptoms of PAD may include:
Shiny skin on the legs.
Skin color changes on the legs.
Slow-growing toenails.
Sores on the toes, feet or legs that won't heal.
Hair loss or slower hair growth on the legs.
Erectile dysfunction.
Causes for Peripheral artery disease (PAD) :
Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is often caused by a buildup of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the artery walls, a condition called atherosclerosis. The buildup is called plaque. Plaque can cause arteries to narrow, blocking blood flow. In PAD, plaque collects in the arteries of the arms or legs.
Less common causes of PAD include:
Swelling and irritation of blood vessels.
Injury to the arms or legs.
Changes in the muscles or ligaments.
Radiation exposure.
Risk Factors for Peripheral artery disease (PAD):
Risk factors for peripheral artery disease (PAD) include:
A family history of peripheral artery disease, heart disease or stroke.
Diabetes.
High blood pressure.
High cholesterol.
Increasing age, especially after 65, or after 50 if you have risk factors for atherosclerosis.
Obesity.
Smoking.
Complications for Peripheral artery disease (PAD):
Complications of peripheral artery disease (PAD) caused by atherosclerosis include:
Critical limb ischemia. In this condition, an injury or infection causes tissue to die. Symptoms include open sores on the limbs that don't heal. Treatment may include amputation of the affected limb.
Stroke and heart attack. Plaque buildup in the arteries also can affect the blood vessels in the heart and brain.
Preventions for Peripheral artery disease (PAD)
The best way to prevent leg pain due to peripheral artery disease (PAD) is to have a healthy lifestyle. That means:
Don't smoke.
Eat foods that are low in sugar, trans fats and saturated fats.
Get regular exercise — but check with your care team about what type and how much is best for you.
Keep a healthy weight.
Manage blood pressure, cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep.
Control stress.
Condition name:Peripheral nerve injuries
Overview of Peripheral nerve injuries:
Peripheral nerves send messages from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. They help do things such as move the body's muscles for walking and sense that the feet are cold. Peripheral nerves are made of fibers called axons that are insulated by surrounding tissues.
Peripheral nerves are fragile and easily damaged. A nerve injury can affect the brain's ability to communicate with muscles and organs. Damage to the peripheral nerves is called peripheral neuropathy.
It's important to get medical care for a peripheral nerve injury as soon as possible. Early diagnosis and treatment may prevent complications and permanent damage.
There are no home remedies available for Peripheral nerve injuries in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Peripheral nerve injuries :
With a peripheral nerve injury, symptoms may range from mild to serious, limiting your daily activities. Your symptoms often depend on which nerve fibers are damaged:
Motor nerves. These nerves regulate all the muscles under your conscious control, such as those used for walking, talking and holding objects. Damage to these nerves can cause muscle weakness, painful cramps and muscle twitching.
Sensory nerves. Because these nerves relay information about touch, temperature and pain, you may experience a variety of symptoms. These include numbness or tingling in the hands or feet. You may have trouble walking, keeping your balance with your eyes closed, fastening buttons, or sensing pain or changes in temperature. Injury of sensory nerves also may cause pain.
Autonomic (aw-tuh-NOM-ik) nerves. This group of nerves regulates activities that are not controlled consciously, such as breathing, heart and thyroid function, and digestion. Symptoms may include excessive sweating, changes in blood pressure, the inability to tolerate heat and gastrointestinal symptoms.
Many peripheral nerve injuries affect more than one type of nerve fiber, so you may experience a range of symptoms.
Causes for Peripheral nerve injuries :
Peripheral nerves can be damaged in several ways:
Injury from an accident, a fall or sports can stretch, compress, crush or cut nerves.
Medical conditions, such as diabetes, Guillain-Barre syndrome and carpal tunnel syndrome, can damage nerves.
Autoimmune diseases including lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and Sjogren syndrome also can damage nerves.
Other causes include narrowing of the arteries, changes in hormone balance and tumors.
Risk Factors for Peripheral nerve injuries:
People who experience physical trauma or play sports may be at higher risk of an injury that can stretch or crush peripheral nerves. People with certain medical conditions also may be at higher risk of peripheral nerve injuries. These conditions, especially diabetes, may put nerves at greater risk of compression.
There are no Complications available for Peripheral nerve injuries in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Peripheral nerve injuries in the knowledge baseCondition name:Peripheral nerve tumors
Overview of Peripheral nerve tumors:
Peripheral nerve tumors are growths that form in or near nerves. Nerves are strands of tissue that transmit signals from the brain to the rest of the body. Peripheral nerves control muscles that allow you to walk, blink, swallow, pick things up and do other activities.
Peripheral nerve tumors can occur anywhere in the body. Most of them are benign, meaning they're not cancerous. But they can lead to pain, nerve damage and loss of function in the affected area.
Treatment usually involves surgery to remove the tumor. When the tumor can't be removed without damaging nearby healthy tissue and nerves, other treatments may be considered.
There are several types of peripheral nerve tumors. Intraneural tumors grow within nerves. Extraneural tumors press against nerves.
There are no home remedies available for Peripheral nerve tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Peripheral nerve tumors :
The symptoms of a peripheral nerve tumor develop from direct effects on the main nerve or from the tumor pressing on nearby nerves, blood vessels or tissues. As the tumor grows, it may be more likely to cause symptoms, although tumor size doesn't always determine effects.
Symptoms of peripheral nerve tumors vary depending on where the tumors are located and the tissues affected. They include:
Swelling or a lump under the skin.
Pain, tingling or numbness.
Weakness or a loss of function in the affected area.
Dizziness or a loss of balance.
Causes for Peripheral nerve tumors :
It's not clear why most peripheral nerve tumors develop. Some are linked to known inherited syndromes, such as neurofibromatosis (types 1 and 2) and schwannomatosis. Others may be caused by changes in a gene.
Risk Factors for Peripheral nerve tumors:
Peripheral nerve tumors are more common in people who have:
Neurofibromatosis (types 1 and 2) and schwannomatosis. In these disorders, tumors develop on or near the nerves throughout the body. There are often multiple tumors. They can lead to a variety of symptoms depending on where they are in the body. These tumors are usually not cancerous.
A history of radiation treatment. A person who was exposed to radiation is at higher risk of developing peripheral nerve tumors years later.
Complications for Peripheral nerve tumors:
Peripheral nerve tumors can press against nerves. This can lead to complications. Some may be permanent:
Numbness and weakness in the affected area.
Loss of function in the affected area.
Trouble with balance.
Pain.
There are no preventive measures available for Peripheral nerve tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Peripheral neuropathy
Overview of Peripheral neuropathy:
Peripheral neuropathy happens when the nerves that are located outside of the brain and spinal cord (peripheral nerves) are damaged. This condition often causes weakness, numbness and pain, usually in the hands and feet. It also can affect other areas and body functions including digestion and urination.
The peripheral nervous system sends information from the brain and spinal cord, also called the central nervous system, to the rest of the body through motor nerves. The peripheral nerves also send sensory information to the central nervous system through sensory nerves.
Peripheral neuropathy can result from traumatic injuries, infections, metabolic problems, inherited causes and exposure to toxins. One of the most common causes of neuropathy is diabetes.
People with peripheral neuropathy usually describe the pain as stabbing, burning or tingling. Sometimes symptoms get better, especially if caused by a condition that can be treated. Medicines can reduce the pain of peripheral neuropathy.
Home Remedies for Peripheral neuropathy:
To help you manage peripheral neuropathy:
Take care of your feet, especially if you have diabetes. Check daily for blisters, cuts or calluses. Wear soft, loose cotton socks and padded shoes. You can use a semicircular hoop, which is available in medical supply stores, to keep bedcovers off hot or sensitive feet.
Exercise. Regular exercise, such as walking three times a week, can lower neuropathy pain, improve muscle strength and help control blood sugar levels. Gentle routines such as yoga and tai chi also might help. If you have painful neuropathy in your feet, you may want to try pool-based exercise such as swimming.
Quit smoking. Cigarette smoking can cause problems with circulation. This increases the risk of foot problems and other neuropathy complications.
Eat healthy meals. Good nutrition is especially important to make sure that you get important vitamins and minerals. Include fruits, vegetables, whole grains and lean protein in your diet.
Avoid excessive alcohol. Alcohol can make peripheral neuropathy worse.
Monitor your blood sugar levels. If you have diabetes, this will help keep your blood sugar under control and might help improve your neuropathy.
Symptoms for Peripheral neuropathy :
Every nerve in the peripheral system has a specific job. Symptoms depend on the type of nerves affected. Nerves are divided into:
Sensory nerves that receive sensation, such as temperature, pain, vibration or touch, from the skin.
Motor nerves that control muscle movement.
Autonomic nerves that control functions such as blood pressure, sweating, heart rate, digestion and bladder function.
Symptoms of peripheral neuropathy might include:
Gradual onset of numbness, prickling, or tingling in your feet or hands. These sensations can spread upward into your legs and arms.
Sharp, jabbing, throbbing or burning pain.
Extreme sensitivity to touch.
Pain during activities that shouldn't cause pain, such as pain in your feet when putting weight on them or when they're under a blanket.
Lack of coordination and falling.
Muscle weakness.
Feeling as if you're wearing gloves or socks when you're not.
Inability to move if motor nerves are affected.
If autonomic nerves are affected, symptoms might include:
Heat intolerance.
Excessive sweating or not being able to sweat.
Bowel, bladder or digestive problems.
Drops in blood pressure, causing dizziness or lightheadedness.
Peripheral neuropathy can affect one nerve, called mononeuropathy. If it affects two or more nerves in different areas, it's called multiple mononeuropathy, and if it affects many nerves, it's called polyneuropathy. Carpal tunnel syndrome is an example of mononeuropathy. Most people with peripheral neuropathy have polyneuropathy.
Causes for Peripheral neuropathy :
Peripheral neuropathy is nerve damage caused by several different conditions. Health conditions that can cause peripheral neuropathy include:
Autoimmune diseases. These include Sjogren's syndrome, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, Guillain-Barre syndrome, chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy and vasculitis. Also, some cancers related to the body's immune system can cause polyneuropathy. These are a form of autoimmune disorder called paraneoplastic syndrome.
Diabetes and metabolic syndrome. This is the most common cause. Among people with diabetes, more than half will develop some type of neuropathy.
Infections. These include certain viral or bacterial infections, including Lyme disease, shingles, hepatitis B and C, leprosy, diphtheria, and HIV.
Inherited disorders. Disorders such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease are hereditary types of neuropathy that run in families.
Tumors. Cancerous growths, also called malignant, and noncancerous growths, also called benign, can grow on or press on nerves.
Bone marrow disorders. These include a protein in the blood that isn't usually there, called monoclonal gammopathies, a rare form of myeloma that affects the bones, lymphoma and the rare disease amyloidosis.
Other diseases. These include metabolic conditions such as kidney disease or liver disease, and an underactive thyroid, also known as hypothyroidism.
Other causes of neuropathies include:
Alcohol use disorder. Unhealthy dietary choices made by people with alcohol use disorder, also known as alcoholism, and poor absorption of vitamins can lead to low amounts of essential vitamins in the body.
Exposure to poisons. Toxic substances include industrial chemicals and heavy metals such as lead and mercury.
Medicines. Certain medicines, especially chemotherapy used to treat cancer, can cause peripheral neuropathy.
Injury or pressure on the nerve. Injuries, such as from motor vehicle accidents, falls or sports injuries, can sever or damage peripheral nerves. Nerve pressure can result from having a cast or using crutches or repeating a motion such as typing many times.
Low vitamin levels. B vitamins, including B-1, B-6 and B-12, as well as copper and vitamin E are crucial to nerve health.
In some cases, no cause can be identified. This is called idiopathic peripheral neuropathy.
Risk Factors for Peripheral neuropathy:
Peripheral neuropathy risk factors include:
Diabetes, especially if your sugar levels are not controlled well.
Alcohol misuse.
Low levels of vitamins in the body, especially vitamin B-12.
Infections, such as Lyme disease, shingles, hepatitis B and C, and HIV.
Autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, in which the immune system attacks your own tissues.
Kidney, liver or thyroid disorders.
Exposure to toxins.
Repetitive motion, such as those performed for certain jobs.
Family history of neuropathy.
Complications for Peripheral neuropathy:
Complications of peripheral neuropathy can include:
Burns, skin injuries and wounds on the feet. You might not feel temperature changes or pain on parts of your body that are numb.
Infection. Your feet and other areas that lack sensation can become injured without your knowing. Check these areas regularly, wear close-toed, well-fitting shoes and treat minor injuries before they become infected, especially if you have diabetes.
Falls. Weakness and loss of sensation may be associated with lack of balance and falling. Installing handrails in the bathroom, using canes or walkers when needed, and ensuring that you are walking only in well-lit rooms can decrease fall risk.
There are no preventive measures available for Peripheral neuropathy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Peritonitis
Overview of Peritonitis:
Peritonitis is a serious condition that starts in the abdomen. That's the area of the body between the chest and the pelvis. Peritonitis happens when the thin layer of tissue inside the abdomen becomes inflamed. The tissue layer is called the peritoneum. Peritonitis usually happens due to an infection from bacteria or fungi.
There are two types of peritonitis:
Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. This infection is caused by bacteria. It can happen when someone has liver disease, such as cirrhosis, or kidney disease.
Secondary peritonitis. Peritonitis can happen due to a hole, also called a rupture, inside an organ in the abdomen. Or it can be caused by other health conditions.
It's important to get treatment fast for peritonitis. Health care providers have ways to clear out the infection. They also can treat any medical problem that might be causing it. Peritonitis treatment usually involves medicines that are used for infections caused by bacteria, called antibiotics. Some people with peritonitis need surgery. If you don't get treatment, peritonitis can lead to a serious infection that spreads through the body. It can be deadly.
A common cause of peritonitis is a treatment for kidney failure called peritoneal dialysis. This treatment helps get rid of waste products from the blood when the kidneys struggle to do that job themselves. If you get peritoneal dialysis, you can help prevent peritonitis with good hygiene before, during and after dialysis. For example, it's important to wash your hands and clean the skin around your catheter.
There are no home remedies available for Peritonitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Peritonitis :
Symptoms of peritonitis include:
Belly pain or tenderness.
Bloating or a feeling of fullness in the abdomen.
Fever.
Upset stomach and vomiting.
Loss of appetite.
Diarrhea.
Reduced urine.
Thirst.
Not able to pass stool or gas.
Feeling tired.
Confusion.
If you get peritoneal dialysis, peritonitis symptoms also may include:
Cloudy dialysis fluid.
White flecks, strands or clumps — which are called fibrin — in the dialysis fluid.
Causes for Peritonitis :
Peritoneum infection is usually caused by a hole in an organ in the abdomen, such as the stomach and colon. The hole is also called a rupture. It's rare for peritonitis to happen for other causes.
Common causes of a hole that leads to peritonitis include:
Medical procedures
Peritoneal dialysis uses tubes, also called catheters, to remove waste products from the blood. An infection may happen during peritoneal dialysis due to an unclean treatment room, poor hygiene or tainted equipment.
Peritonitis also may happen after digestive surgery.
Use of feeding tubes can lead to peritonitis.
Peritonitis can happen after a procedure to take out fluid from your abdomen, such as for the condition ascites in liver disease.
In rare cases, it can be a complication of an exam to check inside the rectum and colon called colonoscopy.
Peritonitis can happen after a procedure to check the digestive tract called endoscopy. This is also rare.
A ruptured appendix, stomach ulcer or hole in the colon. Any of these conditions can allow bacteria to get into the peritoneum through a hole in your digestive tract.
Pancreatitis. This is inflammation of a gland in the abdomen called the pancreas. If you have pancreatitis and you get an infection, bacteria could spread outside the pancreas. That may lead to peritonitis.
Diverticulitis. Infection of small, bulging pouches in the digestive tract may cause peritonitis. This could happen if one of the pouches breaks open. The burst pouch could spill waste from the intestine into the abdomen.
Trauma. Injury may cause peritonitis. This could allow bacteria or chemicals from other parts of the body to get into your peritoneum.
Peritonitis that happens without a hole or tear is called spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. It's usually a complication of liver disease, such as cirrhosis. Advanced cirrhosis causes a lot of fluid buildup in your abdomen. That fluid buildup could lead to a bacterial infection.
Risk Factors for Peritonitis:
Some things that raise the risk of peritonitis are:
Peritoneal dialysis. Peritonitis can happen in people who get this treatment.
Other medical conditions. Certain conditions raise your risk of getting peritonitis, such as:
Liver cirrhosis.
Appendicitis.
Stomach ulcers.
Diverticulitis.
Crohn's disease.
Pancreatitis.
History of peritonitis. Once you've had peritonitis, your risk of getting it again may be higher than that of someone who's never had it.
Complications for Peritonitis:
Without treatment, peritonitis may cause a whole-body infection called sepsis. Sepsis is very dangerous. It can cause shock, organ failure and death.
Preventions for Peritonitis
Peritonitis that's linked with peritoneal dialysis is often caused by germs around the catheter. If you use peritoneal dialysis, take these steps to prevent peritonitis:
Wash your hands before you touch the catheter. Scrub under your fingernails and between your fingers.
Clean the skin around the catheter with an antiseptic every day.
Store your supplies in a clean place.
Wear a surgical mask during your dialysis fluid exchanges.
Talk with your dialysis care team about the correct care for your peritoneal dialysis catheter.
Your health care provider may prescribe antibiotics to prevent peritonitis, especially if you've had peritonitis before. Antibiotics also might be prescribed if you have a buildup of peritoneal fluid due to a medical condition such as liver cirrhosis. If you take medicine called a proton pump inhibitor, you may be asked to stop taking it.
Condition name:Persistent depressive disorder
Overview of Persistent depressive disorder:
Persistent depressive disorder is a continuous, long-term form of depression. You may feel sad and empty, lose interest in daily activities and have trouble getting things done. You may also have low self-esteem, feel like a failure and feel hopeless. These feelings last for years and may interfere with your relationships, school, work and daily activities.
If you have persistent depressive disorder, you may find it hard to be upbeat even on happy occasions. You may be described as having a gloomy personality, constantly complaining or not able to have fun. Persistent depressive disorder is not as severe as major depression, but your current depressed mood may be mild, moderate or severe.
Because persistent depressive disorder is long term, coping with depression symptoms can be challenging. A combination of talk therapy and medicine can be effective in treating this condition.
Home Remedies for Persistent depressive disorder:
Persistent depressive disorder generally is not a condition that you can treat on your own. But along with professional treatment, these self-care steps can help:
Stick to your treatment plan. Don't skip therapy sessions or appointments. Even if you're feeling well, don't skip your medicine. Give yourself time to improve gradually.
Learn about persistent depressive disorder. Education about your condition can empower you and motivate you to follow your treatment plan. Encourage your family to learn about the disorder to help them understand and support you.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your health care provider or therapist to learn what might trigger your symptoms. Make a plan so that you know what to do if symptoms get worse or return. Contact your health care provider or therapist if you notice any changes in symptoms or how you feel. Consider involving family members or friends to watch for warning signs.
Take care of yourself. Eat a healthy diet, be physically active and get plenty of sleep. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or another activity that you enjoy. Sleeping well is important for both physical and mental well-being. If you're having trouble sleeping, ask your provider what you can do.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. It may seem like alcohol or drugs lessen depression-related symptoms. But over time, they generally worsen depression and make it harder to treat. Talk with your provider or therapist if you need help dealing with alcohol or drug use.
Symptoms for Persistent depressive disorder :
Persistent depressive disorder symptoms usually come and go over a period of years. The intensity of symptoms can change over time. But symptoms usually don't disappear for more than two months at a time. Also, major depression episodes may occur before or during persistent depressive disorder.
Symptoms of persistent depressive disorder can cause major problems in your life and may include:
Sadness, emptiness or feeling down.
Loss of interest in daily activities.
Tiredness and lack of energy.
Low self-esteem, self-criticism or feeling you're not capable.
Trouble focusing clearly and trouble making decisions.
Problems getting things done well and on time.
Quickly becoming annoyed, impatient or angry.
Avoidance of social activities.
Feelings of guilt and worries over the past.
Poor appetite or overeating.
Sleep problems.
Hopelessness.
In children, symptoms of persistent depressive disorder may include depressed mood and being irritable, which means easily becoming annoyed, impatient or angry.
Causes for Persistent depressive disorder :
The exact cause of persistent depressive disorder is not known. As with major depression, it may involve more than one cause, such as:
Biological differences. People with persistent depressive disorder may have physical changes in their brains. It's not clear how these changes affect the disorder, but they may eventually help determine the causes.
Brain chemistry. Neurotransmitters are naturally occurring brain chemicals. Research indicates that changes in neurotransmitters may play a large part in depression and its treatment.
Inherited traits. Persistent depressive disorder appears to be more common in people whose blood relatives also have the condition. Researchers are trying to find genes that may be involved in causing depression.
Life events. As with major depression, traumatic events such as the loss of a loved one, financial problems or a high level of stress can trigger persistent depressive disorder in some people.
Risk Factors for Persistent depressive disorder:
Persistent depressive disorder often begins early — in childhood, the teen years or young adult life — and continues for a long time. Certain factors appear to increase the risk of developing persistent depressive disorder, including:
Having a first-degree blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with major depressive disorder or other depressive disorders.
Traumatic or stressful life events, such as the loss of a loved one or major financial problems.
Personality traits that include negativity, such as low self-esteem, being too dependent or self-critical, or always thinking the worst will happen.
History of other mental health disorders, such as a personality disorder.
Complications for Persistent depressive disorder:
Conditions that may be linked with persistent depressive disorder include:
Lower quality of life.
Major depression, anxiety disorders and other mood disorders.
Substance misuse.
Relationship difficulties and family conflicts.
School or work problems and trouble getting things done.
Continuing pain and general medical illnesses.
Suicidal thoughts or behavior.
Personality disorders or other mental health disorders.
Preventions for Persistent depressive disorder
There's no sure way to prevent persistent depressive disorder. Because it often starts in childhood or during the teenage years, identifying children at risk of the condition may help them get early treatment.
Strategies that may help reduce or prevent symptoms include the following:
Take steps to control stress, to increase your ability to recover from problems — which is called resilience — and to boost your self-esteem.
Reach out to family and friends, especially in times of crisis, to help you get through rough spells.
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent symptoms from worsening.
Consider getting long-term treatment to help prevent a relapse of symptoms.
Condition name:Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome)
Overview of Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome):
Persistent post-concussive symptoms are symptoms of a mild traumatic brain injury that typically last longer than three months. Persistent post-concussive symptoms also are called post-concussion syndrome. The symptoms may include headaches, dizziness, and trouble with concentration and memory. Symptoms can last weeks to months.
A mild traumatic brain injury is known as a concussion. A concussion may be caused by a fall, car accident or contact sports injury. Other causes include violent shaking and movement of the head or body.
You don't have to lose consciousness to get a concussion. And a concussion doesn't always cause persistent post-concussive symptoms. The risk of having persistent post-concussive symptoms doesn't appear to be linked to how severe the injury was.
Persistent post-concussive symptoms in most people appear within the first 7 to 10 days after an injury and typically last longer than three months. But sometimes they can last for a year or more. The goal of treatment is to manage symptoms and to improve functioning and quality of life.
There are no home remedies available for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome) :
Persistent post-concussive symptoms can be different in each person. They may include:
Headaches.
Dizziness.
Fatigue.
Irritability.
Anxiety.
Depression.
Trouble falling asleep or sleeping too much.
Poor concentration and memory.
Ringing in the ears.
Blurry vision.
Noise and light sensitivity.
Nausea or vomiting.
Neck pain.
Headaches after a concussion most often feel like migraines. The headaches also might feel like tension-type headaches, which may be related to a neck injury that happened at the same time as the head injury.
Causes for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome) :
More research is needed to better understand how and why persistent post-concussive symptoms happen after some injuries and in some people but not in others.
Persistent post-concussive symptoms may result directly from the impact of the injury itself. Or symptoms may trigger other conditions such as migraines. Symptoms also may be related to other factors. These may include trouble with sleep, dizziness, stress and mental health. Your healthcare professional works with you to understand the cause of your symptoms and which treatments may help.
Risk Factors for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome):
Risk factors for developing persistent post-concussive symptoms include:
Age. Persistent post-concussive symptoms usually are reported in people ages 20 to 30. But studies also show that older adults are at risk of more serious and prolonged persistent post-concussive symptoms.
Sex assigned at birth. Women are more likely to be diagnosed with persistent post-concussive symptoms. But this may be because women are generally more likely to seek medical care.
Anxiety. A history of anxiety is a strong risk factor.
Prior headaches. People who have a history of headaches are at higher risk of having persistent post-concussive symptoms.
Prior brain injury. A previous brain injury is linked to persistent post-concussive symptoms. But lasting symptoms also can happen after a single concussion.
There are no Complications available for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome) in the knowledge basePreventions for Persistent post-concussive symptoms (Post-concussion syndrome)
The only known way to prevent persistent post-concussive symptoms is to avoid a head injury in the first place. You can't always prevent a head injury. But some tips for avoiding them include:
Wear your seat belt. Buckle up every time you ride in a car or other motor vehicle.
Be sure children are in the right safety seats for their ages. Children under age 13 are safest riding in the back seat, especially if your car has air bags. From birth to age 4, their car seats should face the rear. After outgrowing their rear-facing car seats and until at least age 5, they can face forward in the car seats. When children outgrow their forward-facing car seats, they should be moved to buckled booster seats in the back seat. When their seat belts fit properly without booster seats, they can move to seat belts. This usually happens between ages 9 and 12. All children age 13 and under should sit in the back seat.
Wear a helmet. Wear a helmet when biking, roller-skating or ice-skating, skateboarding, riding a motorcycle, skiing, snowboarding, or any activity that could cause a head injury. It's also a good idea to wear a helmet when horseback riding or playing football, baseball or softball.
Get annual eye exams. This is very important for older adults because vision problems may increase the risk of falls. If needed, get new glasses or contacts.
Make your home safer. Remove small area rugs, improve lighting, install handrails and use safety gates for children. Prevent falls in older adults by talking to a healthcare professional about medicines that might cause dizziness or affect balance.
Condition name:Personality disorders
Overview of Personality disorders:
People have unique personalities made up of a complex combination of different traits. Personality traits affect how people understand and relate to the world around them, as well as how they see themselves.
Ideally, people's personality traits allow them to flexibly adapt to their changing environment in ways that lead to more healthy relationships with others and better coping strategies. When people have personality traits that are less adaptive, this leads to inflexibility and unhealthy coping. For example, they may manage stress by drinking or misusing drugs, have a hard time managing their anger, and find it hard to trust and connect with others.
Personality forms early in life. It is shaped through a blend of your:
Genes — Your parents may pass down some personality traits to you. Sometimes these traits are called your temperament.
Environment — This includes your surroundings, events that have happened to you and around you, and relationships and patterns of interactions with family members and others.
A personality disorder is a mental health condition where people have a lifelong pattern of seeing themselves and reacting to others in ways that cause problems. People with personality disorders often have a hard time understanding emotions and tolerating distress. And they act impulsively. This makes it hard for them to relate to others, causing serious issues, and affecting their family life, social activities, work and school performance, and overall quality of life.
Home Remedies for Personality disorders:
Along with your treatment plan, it's also important to:
Take part in your care. This can help you manage your personality disorder. Do not skip therapy sessions, even if you do not feel like going. Therapy can take 6 to 12 months. Think about your goals for treatment and work toward achieving them.
Take your medicines as directed. Even if you're feeling well, do not skip your medicines. If you stop, your symptoms may come back. You also could experience withdrawal-like symptoms from stopping a medicine too quickly.
Learn about your condition. Knowing more about your condition can motivate you to follow your treatment plan.
Get active. Physical activity can help manage many symptoms such as depression, stress and anxiety. You can walk, jog, swim or garden â€” or take up another form of physical activity that you enjoy.
Stay away from drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and street drugs can make personality disorder symptoms worse or affect how a medicine works.
Get routine medical care. Do not ignore checkups or skip visits to your doctor, especially if you are not feeling well. You may have a new health concern that needs to be discussed, or you may be feeling the side effects of a medicine.
Symptoms for Personality disorders :
In some cases, you may not know that you have a personality disorder. That's because how you think and behave seems natural to you. You also may think others are responsible for your challenges.
There are many types of personality disorders, each with important differences. These disorders are organized into three groups, or clusters, with shared features and symptoms:
Causes for Personality disorders :
It's believed that personality disorders are caused by a blend of how genetics and your environment affect you. Your genes may make it more likely that you develop a personality disorder, and what happens to you in life may set a personality disorder into motion.
Risk Factors for Personality disorders:
Although the specific causes of personality disorders are not known, some factors seem to increase the risk of having one:
Specific personality traits. This includes always trying to stay away from harm, or the opposite — a strong need to seek out new activities that get the adrenaline pumping. It also includes poor impulse control.
Early life experiences. This includes a home environment that is not stable, predictable or supportive. It also includes a history of trauma — physical neglect or abuse, emotional neglect or abuse, or sexual abuse.
Complications for Personality disorders:
Personality disorders can seriously disrupt your life and the lives of those who care about you. They may cause issues in relationships, work or school. And they can lead to social isolation, other mental health issues with addictions, as well as occupational and legal issues.
There are no preventive measures available for Personality disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Peyronie disease
Overview of Peyronie disease:
Peyronie (pay-roe-NEE) disease is a condition in which fibrous scar tissue forms in the deeper tissues under the skin of the penis. This causes curved, painful erections. It also can make the penis shorter while erect. Peyronie disease is not caused by cancer.
Penises vary in shape and size. So having a curved erection isn't always a cause for concern. But Peyronie disease causes a serious bend or pain in some people.
This can prevent you from having sex. Or it might make it hard to get or keep an erection, which also is called erectile dysfunction. For many people, Peyronie disease also causes stress and anxiety.
Peyronie disease rarely goes away on its own. In most people with the condition, it will remain as is or may get slightly worse early on. Early treatment soon after you get the condition may keep it from getting worse or even improve symptoms. Even if you've had Peyronie disease for some time, treatment may help ease symptoms such as pain, curving and shortening.
There are no home remedies available for Peyronie disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Peyronie disease :
Peyronie disease symptoms might start suddenly or appear over time. The most common symptoms include:
Scar tissue. The scar tissue linked with Peyronie disease also is called plaque. It's different from plaque that can build up in blood vessels or on your teeth. It can be felt under the skin of the penis as flat lumps or a band of hard tissue. The area over the scar tissue may feel tender.
A bend to the penis. The penis might curve upward or downward or bend to one side.
Erection problems. Peyronie disease might cause problems getting or keeping an erection. This also is called erectile dysfunction. Often though, people with Peyronie disease say they notice erectile dysfunction before the start of their other penile symptoms.
Shortening of the penis. The penis might become shorter during erections due to Peyronie disease.
Pain in the penis. This symptom might happen with or without an erection.
Other changes in how the penis looks. In some people with Peyronie disease, the erect penis might look narrow or indented. It might even take on an hourglass-like shape, with a tight, narrow band around the shaft.
The curving and penile shortening linked with Peyronie disease might become worse over time. Physical changes in the penis often get worse or stay the same during the first year to year and a half.
Pain during erections usually gets better within 1 to 2 years. The scar tissue, penile shortening and curving often remain. It's not common, but the curving and pain of Peyronie disease can get better without treatment.
Causes for Peyronie disease :
The exact cause of Peyronie disease isn't clear. But various factors seem to be involved.
It's thought Peyronie disease most often results from repeated injury to the penis during vigorous sex. But the penis also could be damaged during athletic activities or accidents. Many people with Peyronie disease can't recall a specific injury that led to their symptoms.
During the healing process after injury to the penis, scar tissue forms. This can lead to a lump you can feel or to a curve in the penis.
Each side of the penis contains a spongelike tube called a corpus cavernosum. These tubes have many tiny blood vessels. Each of the corpora cavernosa is encased in a sheath of elastic tissue called the tunica albuginea (TOO-nih-kuh al-BYOO-JIN-e-uh). The sheath stretches during an erection.
When you become sexually aroused, more blood flows to these chambers. As the chambers fill with blood, the penis expands, straightens and stiffens into an erection.
In Peyronie disease, when the penis becomes erect, the area with the scar tissue doesn't stretch. As a result, the penis bends or goes through other changes. This can be painful.
In most people, Peyronie disease symptoms come on slowly and don't seem to be linked with an injury. Researchers are looking into whether Peyronie disease might be tied to a genetic trait or certain health conditions.
Risk Factors for Peyronie disease:
Minor injury to the penis doesn't always lead to Peyronie disease. Various factors can contribute to poor wound healing and scar tissue buildup that might play a role in Peyronie disease. These include:
Family history. If a family member has Peyronie disease, you have a higher risk of the condition.
Connective tissue diseases. People who have certain conditions that affect connective tissue in the body seem to have a higher risk of getting Peyronie disease. For example, some people with Peyronie disease also have a thick cord under the skin of the palm that can pull the fingers inward. This is called Dupuytren contracture.
Age. Peyronie disease can happen at any age. But it becomes more common between the ages of 45 and 70. Curving of the penis in younger men less often is due to Peyronie disease. It is more commonly called congenital penile curvature. A small amount of curvature in younger men is typical and not concerning.
Other factors might be linked to Peyronie disease. These include certain health conditions, smoking and some types of prostate surgery.
Complications for Peyronie disease:
Peyronie disease might lead to troubles that include:
Not being able to have sex.
Trouble getting or keeping an erection, also called erectile dysfunction.
Anxiety, stress, or depression over challenges having sex or the way your penis looks.
Stress on your relationship with your sexual partner.
Trouble having a child because it's challenging or not possible to have sex.
Shorter penis length.
Penile pain.
There are no preventive measures available for Peyronie disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Phenylketonuria (PKU)
Overview of Phenylketonuria (PKU):
Phenylketonuria (fen-ul-key-toe-NU-ree-uh), also called PKU, is a rare inherited disorder that causes an amino acid called phenylalanine to build up in the body. PKU is caused by a change in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene. This gene helps create the enzyme needed to break down phenylalanine.
Without the enzyme necessary to break down phenylalanine, a dangerous buildup can develop when a person with PKU eats foods that contain protein or eats aspartame, an artificial sweetener. This can eventually lead to serious health problems.
For the rest of their lives, people with PKU — babies, children and adults — need to follow a diet that limits phenylalanine, which is found mostly in foods that contain protein. Newer medications may allow some people with PKU to eat a diet that has a higher or an unrestricted amount of phenylalanine.
Babies in the United States and many other countries are screened for PKU soon after birth. Although there is no cure for PKU, recognizing PKU and starting treatment right away can help prevent limitations in areas of thinking, understanding and communicating (intellectual disability) and major health problems.
Home Remedies for Phenylketonuria (PKU):
Strategies to help manage PKU include keeping track of foods eaten, measuring correctly, and being creative. Like anything, the more these strategies are practiced, the greater the comfort and confidence you can develop.
Keep track and measure correctly
If you or your child is following a low-phenylalanine diet, you'll need to keep records of the food eaten every day.
To be as accurate as possible, measure food portions using standard measuring cups and spoons and a kitchen scale that reads in grams. The food amounts are compared with a food list or are used to calculate the amount of phenylalanine eaten every day. Each meal and snack includes the appropriately divided portion of your daily PKU formula.
Food diaries, computer programs and smartphone apps are available that list the amount of phenylalanine in baby foods, solid foods, PKU formulas, and common baking and cooking ingredients.
Meal planning or meal rotations of known foods may help reduce some of the daily tracking.
Be creative
Talk with your dietitian to find out how you can be creative with foods to help you stay on track. For example, use seasonings and a variety of cooking methods to transform lower phenylalanine vegetables into a whole menu of different dishes. Herbs and flavorings low in phenylalanine can have lots of flavor. Just remember to measure and count every ingredient and adjust recipes to your specific diet.
If you have any other health conditions, you may also need to consider those when you plan your diet. Talk with your health care provider or dietitian if you have any questions.
Symptoms for Phenylketonuria (PKU) :
Newborns with PKU initially don't have any symptoms. However, without treatment, babies usually develop signs of PKU within a few months.
Signs and symptoms of untreated PKU can be mild or severe and may include:
A musty odor in the breath, skin or urine, caused by too much phenylalanine in the body
Nervous system (neurological) problems that may include seizures
Skin rashes, such as eczema
Lighter skin, hair and eye color than family members, because phenylalanine can't transform into melanin — the pigment responsible for hair and skin tone
Unusually small head size (microcephaly)
Hyperactivity
Intellectual disability
Delayed development
Behavioral, emotional and social problems
Mental health disorders
Causes for Phenylketonuria (PKU) :
A gene change (genetic mutation) causes PKU, which can be mild, moderate or severe. In a person with PKU, a change in the phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) gene causes a lack of or reduced amount of the enzyme that's needed to process phenylalanine, an amino acid.
A dangerous buildup of phenylalanine can develop when a person with PKU eats protein-rich foods, such as milk, cheese, nuts or meat, or grains such as bread and pasta, or aspartame, an artificial sweetener.
Risk Factors for Phenylketonuria (PKU):
Risk factors for inheriting PKU include:
Having both parents with a gene change that causes PKU. Two parents must pass along a copy of the changed gene for their child to develop the condition.
Being of a certain racial or ethnic descent. PKU affects people from most ethnic backgrounds worldwide. But in the United States, it's most common in people of European ancestry and much less common in people of African ancestry.
Complications for Phenylketonuria (PKU):
Untreated PKU can lead to complications in infants, children and adults with the disorder. When women with PKU have high blood phenylalanine levels during pregnancy, it can harm their unborn baby.
Untreated PKU can lead to:
Irreversible brain damage and marked intellectual disability beginning within the first few months of life
Neurological problems such as seizures and tremors
Behavioral, emotional and social problems in older children and adults
Major health and developmental problems
Preventions for Phenylketonuria (PKU)
If you have PKU and are considering getting pregnant:
Follow a low-phenylalanine diet. Women with PKU can prevent harm to their developing baby by sticking to or returning to a low-phenylalanine diet before becoming pregnant. Nutritional supplements designed for people with PKU can ensure enough protein and nutrition during pregnancy. If you have PKU, talk to your health care provider before you start trying to conceive.
Consider genetic counseling. If you have PKU, a close relative with PKU or a child with PKU, you may benefit from genetic counseling before becoming pregnant. A specialist in medical genetics (geneticist) can help you better understand how PKU is passed through your family. The specialist can also help determine your risk of having a child with PKU and assist with family planning.
Condition name:Pheochromocytoma
Overview of Pheochromocytoma:
A pheochromocytoma (fee-o-kroe-moe-sy-TOE-muh) is a rare tumor that grows in an adrenal gland. Most often, the tumor is not cancer. When a tumor isn't cancer, it's called benign.
You have two adrenal glands — one at the top of each kidney. The adrenal glands make hormones that help control key processes in the body, such as blood pressure. Usually, a pheochromocytoma forms in only one adrenal gland. But tumors can grow in both adrenal glands.
With a pheochromocytoma, the tumor releases hormones that can cause various symptoms. They include high blood pressure, headache, sweating and symptoms of a panic attack. If a pheochromocytoma isn't treated, serious or life-threatening damage to other body systems can happen.
Surgery to remove a pheochromocytoma often returns blood pressure to a healthy range.
There are no home remedies available for Pheochromocytoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pheochromocytoma :
A pheochromocytoma often causes the following symptoms:
High blood pressure.
Headache.
Heavy sweating.
Rapid heartbeat.
Some people with pheochromocytomas also have symptoms such as:
Nervous shaking.
Skin that turns a lighter color, also called pallor.
Shortness of breath.
Panic attack-type symptoms, which can include sudden intense fear.
Anxiety or a sense of doom.
Vision problems.
Constipation.
Weight loss.
Some people with pheochromocytomas have no symptoms. They don't realize they have the tumor until an imaging test happens to find it.
Causes for Pheochromocytoma :
Researchers don't know exactly what causes a pheochromocytoma. The tumor forms in cells called chromaffin cells. These cells are located in the center of an adrenal gland. They release certain hormones, mainly adrenaline and noradrenaline. These hormones help control many body functions, such as heart rate, blood pressure and blood sugar.
Adrenaline and noradrenaline trigger the body's fight-or-flight response. That response happens when the body thinks there is a threat. The hormones cause blood pressure to rise and the heart to beat faster. They also prepare other body systems so you can react quickly. A pheochromocytoma causes more of these hormones to be released. And it causes them to be released when you're not in a threatening situation.
Most of the chromaffin cells are in the adrenal glands. But small clusters of these cells also are in the heart, head, neck, bladder, stomach area and along the spine. Chromaffin cell tumors located outside of the adrenal glands are called paragangliomas. They may cause the same effects on the body as a pheochromocytoma.
Risk Factors for Pheochromocytoma:
A person's age and certain medical conditions can raise the risk of a pheochromocytoma.
Most pheochromocytomas are found in people between the ages of 20 and 50. But the tumor can form at any age.
People who have certain rare genetic conditions have a higher risk of pheochromocytomas. The tumors can be benign, meaning they are not cancer. Or they can be malignant, meaning they are cancer. Often, benign tumors related to these genetic conditions form in both adrenal glands. Genetic conditions linked with pheochromocytoma include:
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 2 (MEN 2). This condition can cause tumors in more than one part of the body's hormone-making system, called the endocrine system. There are two types of MEN 2 — type 2A and type 2B. Both can involve pheochromocytomas. Other tumors linked with this condition can appear in other parts of the body. These body parts include the thyroid, parathyroid glands, lips, mouth and digestive system.
Von Hippel-Lindau disease. This condition can cause tumors in many parts of the body. Possible sites include the brain and spinal cord, endocrine system, pancreas and kidneys.
Neurofibromatosis 1. This condition causes tumors in the skin called neurofibromas. It also can cause tumors of the nerve at the back of the eye that connects to the brain, called the optic nerve.
Hereditary paraganglioma syndromes. These conditions are passed down in families. They can result in pheochromocytomas or paragangliomas.
Complications for Pheochromocytoma:
A pheochromocytoma can lead to other health problems. The high blood pressure linked with a pheochromocytoma can damage organs, especially tissues of the heart and blood vessel system, brain and kidneys. This damage can cause dangerous conditions, including:
Heart disease.
Stroke.
Kidney failure.
Vision loss.
There are no preventive measures available for Pheochromocytoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pilonidal cyst
Overview of Pilonidal cyst:
A pilonidal (pie-low-NIE-dul) cyst is an unusual pocket in the skin that usually contains hair and skin debris. The cyst is almost always near the tailbone at the top of the buttocks.
Pilonidal cysts usually occur when hair punctures the skin and then becomes embedded. If a pilonidal cyst becomes infected, it can be very painful. The cyst can be drained through a small cut in the skin. Sometimes, surgery is needed.
Pilonidal cysts are most common in young adult males, and the problem tends to recur. People who sit for long periods of time are at higher risk of developing pilonidal cysts.
There are no home remedies available for Pilonidal cyst in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pilonidal cyst :
A pilonidal cyst may not cause symptoms. But if it's infected, the skin around the cyst may be swollen and painful. Symptoms of an infected pilonidal cyst include:
A pit near the top of the buttocks crease.
Pain.
Inflamed, swollen skin.
Pus or blood leaking from an opening in the skin.
An odor from draining pus.
Causes for Pilonidal cyst :
The cause of most pilonidal cysts is loose hairs that puncture the skin. Friction and pressure from rubbed skin, tight clothing, cycling or long periods of sitting can force hair into the skin.
The body creates a cyst around the hair to try to push it out. Most pilonidal cysts form on the tailbone. People who groom animals or cut hair can develop a cyst between their fingers.
Risk Factors for Pilonidal cyst:
Factors that might increase your risk of a pilonidal cyst include:
Being a young adult white male.
Being overweight.
Having an inactive lifestyle.
Sitting for long periods at a time.
Having thick, stiff body hair.
Complications for Pilonidal cyst:
Some people have pilonidal cysts that become infected again and again over a long time. Without treatment, these people may be at increased risk of a type of skin cancer called squamous cell carcinoma.
Preventions for Pilonidal cyst
To help prevent pilonidal cysts, try to:
Wash regularly.
Achieve or maintain a healthy weight.
Avoid prolonged sitting.
If you've had pilonidal cysts in the past, you might want to regularly shave the affected area or use hair removal products to reduce the risk of a new cyst.
Condition name:Pinched nerve
Overview of Pinched nerve:
A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues, such as bones, cartilage, muscles or tendons. This pressure can cause pain, tingling, numbness or weakness.
A pinched nerve can occur in many areas of the body. For example, a herniated disk in the lower spine may put pressure on a nerve root. This may cause pain that radiates down the back of the leg. A pinched nerve in the wrist can lead to pain and numbness in the hand and fingers, known as carpal tunnel syndrome.
With rest and other conservative treatments, most people recover from a pinched nerve within a few days or weeks. Sometimes, surgery is needed to relieve pain from a pinched nerve.
There are no home remedies available for Pinched nerve in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pinched nerve :
Pinched nerve symptoms include:
Numbness or less feeling in the area supplied by the nerve.
Sharp, aching or burning pain, which may radiate outward.
Tingling, or a pins and needles feeling.
Muscle weakness in the affected area.
Often feeling as if a foot or hand has "fallen asleep."
Symptoms related to a pinched nerve may be worse when you're sleeping.
Causes for Pinched nerve :
A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure, known as compression, is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues.
This tissue might be bone or cartilage, such as when a herniated spinal disk compresses a nerve root. Or muscle or tendons may compress a nerve.
In carpal tunnel syndrome, a variety of tissues may be responsible for compression of the carpal tunnel's median nerve in the wrist. It can be caused by swollen tendon sheaths within the tunnel, enlarged bone that narrows the tunnel, or a thickened and degenerated ligament.
A number of conditions may cause tissue to compress a nerve or nerves, including:
Injury.
Rheumatoid or wrist arthritis.
Stress from repetitive work.
Hobbies or sports.
Obesity.
If a nerve is pinched for only a short time, there's often no permanent damage. Once the pressure is relieved, nerve function returns. However, if the pressure continues, chronic pain and permanent nerve damage can occur.
Risk Factors for Pinched nerve:
The following factors may increase your risk of experiencing a pinched nerve:
Sex assigned at birth. Women are more likely to develop carpal tunnel syndrome, possibly due to having smaller carpal tunnels.
Bone spurs. Trauma or a condition that causes bone thickening, such as osteoarthritis, can cause bone spurs. Bone spurs can stiffen the spine as well as narrow the space where your nerves travel, pinching nerves.
Rheumatoid arthritis. Inflammation caused by rheumatoid arthritis can compress nerves, especially in your joints.
Thyroid disease. People with thyroid disease are at higher risk of carpal tunnel syndrome.
Other risk factors include:
Diabetes. People with diabetes are at higher risk of nerve compression.
Overuse. Jobs or hobbies that require repetitive hand, wrist or shoulder movements increase the risk of a pinched nerve. This includes assembly line work.
Obesity. Excess weight can add pressure to nerves.
Pregnancy. Water and weight gain associated with pregnancy can swell nerve pathways, compressing your nerves.
Prolonged bed rest. Long periods of lying down can increase the risk of nerve compression.
There are no Complications available for Pinched nerve in the knowledge basePreventions for Pinched nerve
The following measures may help you prevent a pinched nerve:
Maintain good positioning. Don't cross your legs or lie in any one position for a long time.
Incorporate strength and flexibility exercises into your regular exercise program.
Limit repetitive activities and take frequent breaks when engaging in these activities.
Maintain a healthy weight to put less pressure on nerves.
Condition name:Pineoblastoma
Overview of Pineoblastoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Pineoblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pineoblastoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Pineoblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Pineoblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Pineoblastoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pineoblastoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pink eye (conjunctivitis)
Overview of Pink eye (conjunctivitis):
Pink eye is an inflammation of the transparent membrane that lines the eyelid and eyeball. This membrane is called the conjunctiva. When small blood vessels in the conjunctiva become swollen and irritated, they're more visible. This is what causes the whites of the eyes to appear reddish or pink. Pink eye also is called conjunctivitis.
Pink eye is most often caused by a viral infection. It also can be caused by a bacterial infection, an allergic reaction or — in babies — an incompletely opened tear duct.
Though pink eye can be irritating, it rarely affects your vision. Treatments can help ease the discomfort of pink eye. Because pink eye can be contagious, getting an early diagnosis and taking certain precautions can help limit its spread.
Home Remedies for Pink eye (conjunctivitis):
To help you cope with the symptoms of pink eye until it goes away, try to:
Apply a compress to your eyes. To make a compress, soak a clean, lint-free cloth in water and wring it out before applying it gently to your closed eyelids. Generally, a cool water compress will feel the most soothing, but you also can use a warm compress if that feels better to you. If pink eye affects only one eye, don't touch both eyes with the same cloth. This reduces the risk of spreading pink eye from one eye to the other.
Try eye drops. Nonprescription eye drops called artificial tears may relieve symptoms. Some eyedrops contain antihistamines or other medicines that can be helpful for people with allergic conjunctivitis.
Stop wearing contact lenses. If you wear contact lenses, you may need to stop wearing them until your eyes feel better. How long you'll need to go without contact lenses depends on what's causing your conjunctivitis. Ask your health care provider whether you should throw away your disposable contacts, as well as your cleaning solution and lens case. If your lenses aren't disposable, clean them thoroughly before reusing them.
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: What parents need to know about pink eye
Symptoms for Pink eye (conjunctivitis) :
The most common pink eye symptoms include:
Redness in one or both eyes.
Itchiness in one or both eyes.
A gritty feeling in one or both eyes.
A discharge in one or both eyes that forms a crust during the night that may prevent your eye or eyes from opening in the morning.
Tearing.
Sensitivity to light, called photophobia.
Causes for Pink eye (conjunctivitis) :
Causes of pink eye include:
Viruses.
Bacteria.
Allergies.
A chemical splash in the eye.
A foreign object in the eye.
In newborns, a blocked tear duct.
Risk Factors for Pink eye (conjunctivitis):
Risk factors for pink eye include:
Exposure to someone infected with the viral or bacterial form of conjunctivitis.
Exposure to something you're allergic to, for allergic conjunctivitis.
Using contact lenses, especially extended-wear lenses.
Complications for Pink eye (conjunctivitis):
In both children and adults, pink eye can cause inflammation in the cornea that can affect vision. Prompt evaluation and treatment by your health care provider can reduce the risk of complications. See your provider if you have:
Eye pain.
A feeling that something is stuck in your eye.
Blurred vision.
Light sensitivity.
There are no preventive measures available for Pink eye (conjunctivitis) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pituitary tumors
Overview of Pituitary tumors:
Pituitary tumors are unusual growths that develop in the pituitary gland. This gland is an organ about the size of a pea. It's located behind the nose at the base of the brain. Some of these tumors cause the pituitary gland to make too much of certain hormones that control important body functions. Others can cause the pituitary gland to make too little of those hormones.
Most pituitary tumors are benign. That means they are not cancer. Another name for these noncancerous tumors is pituitary adenomas. Most adenomas stay in the pituitary gland or in the tissue around it, and they grow slowly. They typically don't spread to other parts of the body.
Pituitary tumors can be treated in several ways. The tumor may be removed with surgery. Or its growth may be controlled with medications or radiation therapy. Sometimes, hormone levels are managed with medicine. Your health care provider may suggest a combination of these treatments. In some cases, observation — also called a ''wait-and-see'' approach — may be the right choice.
There are no home remedies available for Pituitary tumors in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pituitary tumors :
Not all pituitary tumors cause symptoms. Sometimes these tumors are found during an imaging test, such as an MRI or a CT scan, that is done for another reason. If they don't cause symptoms, pituitary tumors usually don't need treatment.
Pituitary tumor symptoms may be caused by a tumor putting pressure on the brain or on other parts of the body nearby. Symptoms also can be caused by a hormone imbalance. Hormone levels can rise when a pituitary tumor makes too much of one or more hormones. Or a large tumor that disrupts the way the pituitary gland works may cause hormone levels to fall.
Causes for Pituitary tumors :
The pituitary gland is a small organ about the size of a pea. It's located behind the nose at the base of the brain. Despite its small size, the pituitary gland has an effect on nearly every part of the body. The hormones it makes control important body functions, such as growth, blood pressure and reproduction.
The cause of uncontrolled cell growth in the pituitary gland, which creates a tumor, remains unknown. In rare cases, pituitary tumors can be caused by genes you've inherited. But most have no clear hereditary cause. Still, scientists think that changes in genes may play an important role in how pituitary tumors develop.
Risk Factors for Pituitary tumors:
Most people who get pituitary tumors don't have any factors that put them at higher risk of developing these tumors. Environment and lifestyle choices don't seem to have an effect on a person's risk of pituitary tumors.
Although genetics seems to play a role, most people who have pituitary tumors don't have a family history of them.
The only known risk factors are several rare hereditary conditions that raise the risk of many health problems, including pituitary tumors. These conditions include:
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 1, also called MEN 1.
Multiple endocrine neoplasia, type 4, also called MEN 4.
Carney complex.
McCune-Albright syndrome.
Complications for Pituitary tumors:
Pituitary tumors usually don't spread to other parts of the body. They can affect a person's health, though. Pituitary tumors may cause:
Problems with eyesight, including vision loss.
High blood pressure.
High blood sugar.
Bone loss.
Heart problems.
Problems with thinking and memory.
There are no preventive measures available for Pituitary tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Plague
Overview of Plague:
Plague is a serious illness caused by a germ called Yersinia pestis. The germs mostly live in small rodents and their fleas. The most common way for humans to get plague is a flea bite.
Plague is a rare disease. The illness mostly occurs in only a few countries around the world. In the United States, plague affects a few people each year in rural or semirural areas of western states.
Plague usually can be treated with antibiotics. If not treated, the illness is often deadly.
Plague is considered a potential bioweapon. The U.S. government has plans and treatments in place if the disease is used as a weapon.
There are no home remedies available for Plague in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Plague :
There are three types of plague. The symptoms vary for each type.
Causes for Plague :
Plague is caused by a bacteria called Yersinia pestis. The bacteria circulate in populations of small animals and their fleas.
In the western United States, these animals include:
Rats, mice and voles.
Squirrels.
Rabbits.
Prairie dogs.
Ground squirrels and chipmunks.
Other animals can get plague by eating small animals with the disease or picking up their fleas. These may include:
Pet cats and dogs.
Coyotes.
Wild cats.
Risk Factors for Plague:
The risk of getting plague is very low. Worldwide, only a few thousand people get plague each year. In the United States, seven people on average get plague each year.
Complications for Plague:
Complications of plague may include:
Gangrene. Blood clots can form in the tiny blood vessels of the fingers, toes, nose and ears. This can cause the tissues to die. The dead tissue needs to be removed.
Meningitis. Rarely, plague may cause swelling and disease of the protective tissues surrounding the brain and spinal cord. This condition is called meningitis.
Pharyngeal plague. Rarely, the disease can be present in the tissues behind the nasal cavity and mouth, called the pharynx. This is called pharyngeal plague.
Preventions for Plague
No vaccine is available, but scientists are working to develop one. Antibiotics can help prevent infection if you were likely exposed to plague.
People with pneumonic plague are isolated during treatment to prevent the spread of disease. Health care workers must wear protective masks, gowns, gloves and eyewear when they treat someone with pneumonic plague.
Condition name:Plantar fasciitis
Overview of Plantar fasciitis:
Plantar fasciitis (PLAN-tur fas-e-I-tis) is one of the most common causes of heel pain. It involves inflammation of a thick band of tissue that runs across the bottom of each foot and connects the heel bone to the toes, known as the plantar fascia.
Plantar fasciitis commonly causes stabbing pain that often occurs with your first steps in the morning. As you get up and move, the pain normally decreases, but it might return after long periods of standing or when you stand up after sitting.
The cause of plantar fasciitis is poorly understood. It is more common in runners and in people who are overweight.
Home Remedies for Plantar fasciitis:
To reduce the pain of plantar fasciitis, try these self-care tips:
Maintain a healthy weight. Extra weight can put extra stress on your plantar fascia.
Choose supportive shoes. Buy shoes with a low to moderate heel, thick soles, good arch support and extra cushioning. Don't wear flats or walk barefoot.
Don't wear worn-out athletic shoes. Replace your old athletic shoes before they stop supporting and cushioning your feet.
Change your sport. Try a low-impact sport, such as swimming or bicycling, instead of walking or jogging.
Apply ice. Hold a cloth-covered ice pack over the area of pain for 15 minutes three or four times a day to help reduce pain and swelling. Or try rolling a frozen bottle of water under your foot for an ice massage.
Stretch your arches. Simple home exercises can stretch your plantar fascia, Achilles tendon and calf muscles.
Symptoms for Plantar fasciitis :
Plantar fasciitis typically causes a stabbing pain in the bottom of your foot near the heel. The pain is usually the worst with the first few steps after awakening, although it also can be triggered by long periods of standing or when you get up from sitting.
Causes for Plantar fasciitis :
The plantar fascia is a band of tissue, called fascia, that connects your heel bone to the base of your toes. It supports the arch of the foot and absorbs shock when walking.
Tension and stress on the fascia can cause small tears. Repeated stretching and tearing of the facia can irritate or inflame it, although the cause remains unclear in many cases of plantar fasciitis.
Risk Factors for Plantar fasciitis:
Even though plantar fasciitis can develop without an obvious cause, some factors can increase your risk of developing this condition. They include:
Age. Plantar fasciitis is most common in people between the ages of 40 and 60.
Certain types of exercise. Activities that place a lot of stress on your heel and attached tissue — such as long-distance running, ballet dancing and aerobic dance — can contribute to the onset of plantar fasciitis.
Foot mechanics. Flat feet, a high arch or even an atypical pattern of walking can affect the way weight is distributed when you're standing and can put added stress on the plantar fascia.
Obesity. Excess pounds put extra stress on your plantar fascia.
Occupations that keep you on your feet. Factory workers, teachers and others who spend most of their work hours walking or standing on hard surfaces can be at increased risk of plantar fasciitis.
Complications for Plantar fasciitis:
Ignoring plantar fasciitis can result in chronic heel pain that hinders your regular activities. You're likely to change your walk to try to avoid plantar fasciitis pain, which might lead to foot, knee, hip or back problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Plantar fasciitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Plantar warts
Overview of Plantar warts:
Plantar warts are small, rough growths on the feet. They usually show up on the balls and heels of the feet, the areas that bear the most pressure. This pressure may also cause a wart to grow inward beneath a hard, thick layer of skin (callus).
Plantar warts are caused by HPV. This virus enters through tiny cuts or breaks on the bottom of the feet.
Most plantar warts aren't a serious health concern and often go away without treatment, especially in children under 12. To get rid of them sooner, you can try self-care treatments or see your health care provider.
Home Remedies for Plantar warts:
Many people have removed warts with these self-care tips:
Peeling medicine (salicylic acid). Nonprescription wart removal products are sold as a patch, gel or liquid. You'll likely be instructed to wash the site, soak it in warm water, and gently remove the top layer of softened skin with a pumice stone or emery board. Then after the skin has dried, you apply the solution or patch. Patches are often changed every 24 to 48 hours. Liquid products are used daily. It might take weeks to remove the wart using this method.
Freezing medicine (cryotherapy). Nonprescription medicines that freeze the wart include Compound W Freeze Off and Dr. Scholl's Freeze Away. The Food and Drug Administration cautions that some wart removers are flammable and shouldn't be used around fire, flame, heat sources (such as curling irons) and lit cigarettes.
Duct tape. Using duct tape to remove warts is a harmless but unproven approach. To try it, cover the wart with silver duct tape, changing it every few days. Between applications, soak the wart and gently remove dead tissue with a pumice stone or emery board. Then leave the wart open to the air to dry for a few hours before covering it with tape again.
In general, no matter which treatment you try, do these two things:
Cover the wart to help prevent it from spreading to other parts of the body or to other people.
Wash your hands after touching the wart.
If a plantar wart goes away after treatment and another wart grows, it could be because the area was exposed again to HPV.
Symptoms for Plantar warts :
Plantar wart signs and symptoms include:
A small, rough growth on the bottom of your foot, usually at the base of the toes or on the ball or heel
On brown and Black skin, the growth may be lighter than unaffected skin
Hard, thickened skin (callus) over a spot on the skin, where a wart has grown inward
Black pinpoints, which are small clotted blood vessels commonly called wart seeds
A cluster of growths on the sole of the foot (mosaic warts)
A growth that interrupts the normal lines and ridges in the skin of your foot
Pain or tenderness when walking or standing
Causes for Plantar warts :
Plantar warts are caused by an infection with HPV in the outer layer of skin on the soles of the feet. The warts develop when the virus enters through tiny cuts, breaks or weak spots on the bottom of the foot. If left untreated, warts can last from a few months to 2 years in children, and several years in in adults.
HPV is very common, and more than 100 kinds of the virus exist. But only a few of them cause warts on the feet. Other types of HPV are more likely to cause warts on other areas of your skin or on mucous membranes.
Risk Factors for Plantar warts:
Anyone can develop plantar warts, but this type of wart is more likely to affect:
Children and teenagers
People with weak immune systems
People who have had plantar warts before
People who walk barefoot in areas where a wart-causing virus is common, such as locker rooms and swimming pools
Complications for Plantar warts:
When plantar warts cause pain, you may alter your normal posture or gait — perhaps without realizing it. Eventually, this change in how you stand, walk or run can cause muscle or joint discomfort.
There are no preventive measures available for Plantar warts in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pleurisy
Overview of Pleurisy:
Pleurisy (PLOOR-ih-see) is a condition in which the pleura — two large, thin layers of tissue that separate your lungs from your chest wall — becomes inflamed. Also called pleuritis, pleurisy causes sharp chest pain (pleuritic pain) that worsens during breathing.
One pleural layer of tissue wraps around the outside of the lungs. The other pleural layer lines the inner chest wall. Between these two layers is a small space (pleural space) that's usually filled with a very small amount of liquid. These layers act like two pieces of smooth satin gliding past each other, allowing your lungs to expand and contract when you breathe.
If you have pleurisy, these tissues swell and become inflamed. As a result, the two layers of the pleural lining rub against each other like two pieces of sandpaper. This causes pain when you breathe in and out. The pleuritic pain lessens or stops when you hold your breath.
Treatment of pleurisy involves pain control and treating the cause.
Home Remedies for Pleurisy:
These steps might help relieve symptoms related to pleurisy:
Take medication. Take medication as recommended by your healthcare provider to relieve pain and inflammation.
Get plenty of rest. Find the position that causes you the least discomfort when you rest. Even when you start to feel better, be careful not to overdo it.
Don't smoke. Smoking can cause more irritation to your lungs. If you smoke and can't quit on your own, ask your healthcare provider for help.
Symptoms for Pleurisy :
Signs and symptoms of pleurisy might include:
Chest pain that worsens when you breathe, cough or sneeze.
Shortness of breath — often from trying to limit breathing in and out.
Cough — only in some cases.
Fever — only in some cases.
Pain caused by pleurisy might worsen with movement of your upper body and can spread to your shoulders or back.
Pleurisy can occur along with pleural effusion, atelectasis or empyema:
Pleural effusion. In some cases of pleurisy, fluid builds up in the small space between the two layers of tissue. This is called pleural effusion. When there is a fair amount of fluid, pleuritic pain lessens or disappears because the two layers of pleura are no longer in contact and don't rub together.
Atelectasis. A large amount of fluid in the pleural space can create pressure. This can compress your lung to the point that it partially or completely collapses (atelectasis). This makes breathing difficult and might cause coughing.
Empyema. The extra fluid in the pleural space can also become infected, resulting in a buildup of pus. This is called an empyema. Fever often occurs along with an empyema.
Causes for Pleurisy :
A variety of conditions can cause pleurisy. Causes include:
Viral infection, such as the flu (influenza).
Bacterial infection, such as pneumonia.
Fungal infection.
Autoimmune disorder, such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Lung cancer near the pleural surface.
Pulmonary embolism.
Tuberculosis (TB).
Rib fracture or trauma.
Certain inherited diseases, such as sickle cell disease.
Certain medications and recreational drugs.
Risk Factors for Pleurisy:
The risk of pleurisy increases if you get certain infections, such as the flu or pneumonia. Some medical conditions, such as lupus, TB and sickle cell disease also can increase your risk. And taking certain medicines or certain recreational drugs raise the risk of pleurisy.
There are no Complications available for Pleurisy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pleurisy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pneumonia
Overview of Pneumonia:
Pneumonia is an infection that inflames the air sacs in one or both lungs. The air sacs may fill with fluid or pus (purulent material), causing cough with phlegm or pus, fever, chills, and difficulty breathing. A variety of organisms, including bacteria, viruses and fungi, can cause pneumonia.
Pneumonia can range in seriousness from mild to life-threatening. It is most serious for infants and young children, people older than age 65, and people with health problems or weakened immune systems.
Home Remedies for Pneumonia:
These tips can help you recover more quickly and decrease your risk of complications:
Get plenty of rest. Don't go back to school or work until after your temperature returns to normal and you stop coughing up mucus. Even when you start to feel better, be careful not to overdo it. Because pneumonia can recur, it's better not to jump back into your routine until you are fully recovered. Ask your doctor if you're not sure.
Stay hydrated. Drink plenty of fluids, especially water, to help loosen mucus in your lungs.
Take your medicine as prescribed. Take the entire course of any medications your doctor prescribed for you. If you stop taking medication too soon, your lungs may continue to harbor bacteria that can multiply and cause your pneumonia to recur.
Symptoms for Pneumonia :
The signs and symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe, depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection, and your age and overall health. Mild signs and symptoms often are similar to those of a cold or flu, but they last longer.
Signs and symptoms of pneumonia may include:
Chest pain when you breathe or cough
Confusion or changes in mental awareness (in adults age 65 and older)
Cough, which may produce phlegm
Fatigue
Fever, sweating and shaking chills
Lower than normal body temperature (in adults older than age 65 and people with weak immune systems)
Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea
Shortness of breath
Newborns and infants may not show any sign of the infection. Or they may vomit, have a fever and cough, appear restless or tired and without energy, or have difficulty breathing and eating.
See your doctor if you have difficulty breathing, chest pain, persistent fever of 102 F (39 C) or higher, or persistent cough, especially if you're coughing up pus.
It's especially important that people in these high-risk groups see a doctor:
Adults older than age 65
Children younger than age 2 with signs and symptoms
People with an underlying health condition or weakened immune system
People receiving chemotherapy or taking medication that suppresses the immune system
For some older adults and people with heart failure or chronic lung problems, pneumonia can quickly become a life-threatening condition.
Causes for Pneumonia :
Many germs can cause pneumonia. The most common are bacteria and viruses in the air we breathe. Your body usually prevents these germs from infecting your lungs. But sometimes these germs can overpower your immune system, even if your health is generally good.
Pneumonia is classified according to the types of germs that cause it and where you got the infection.
Community-acquired pneumonia is the most common type of pneumonia. It occurs outside of hospitals or other health care facilities. It may be caused by:
Bacteria. The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia in the U.S. is Streptococcus pneumoniae. This type of pneumonia can occur on its own or after you've had a cold or the flu. It may affect one part (lobe) of the lung, a condition called lobar pneumonia.
Bacteria-like organisms. Mycoplasma pneumoniae also can cause pneumonia. It typically produces milder symptoms than do other types of pneumonia. Walking pneumonia is an informal name given to this type of pneumonia, which typically isn't severe enough to require bed rest.
Fungi. This type of pneumonia is most common in people with chronic health problems or weakened immune systems, and in people who have inhaled large doses of the organisms. The fungi that cause it can be found in soil or bird droppings and vary depending upon geographic location.
Viruses, including COVID-19. Some of the viruses that cause colds and the flu can cause pneumonia. Viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children younger than 5 years. Viral pneumonia is usually mild. But in some cases it can become very serious. Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) may cause pneumonia, which can become severe.
Some people catch pneumonia during a hospital stay for another illness. Hospital-acquired pneumonia can be serious because the bacteria causing it may be more resistant to antibiotics and because the people who get it are already sick. People who are on breathing machines (ventilators), often used in intensive care units, are at higher risk of this type of pneumonia.
Health care-acquired pneumonia is a bacterial infection that occurs in people who live in long-term care facilities or who receive care in outpatient clinics, including kidney dialysis centers. Like hospital-acquired pneumonia, health care-acquired pneumonia can be caused by bacteria that are more resistant to antibiotics.
Aspiration pneumonia occurs when you inhale food, drink, vomit or saliva into your lungs. Aspiration is more likely if something disturbs your normal gag reflex, such as a brain injury or swallowing problem, or excessive use of alcohol or drugs.
Risk Factors for Pneumonia:
Pneumonia can affect anyone. But the two age groups at highest risk are:
Children who are 2 years old or younger
People who are age 65 or older
Other risk factors include:
Being hospitalized. You're at greater risk of pneumonia if you're in a hospital intensive care unit, especially if you're on a machine that helps you breathe (a ventilator).
Chronic disease. You're more likely to get pneumonia if you have asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or heart disease.
Smoking. Smoking damages your body's natural defenses against the bacteria and viruses that cause pneumonia.
Weakened or suppressed immune system. People who have HIV/AIDS, who've had an organ transplant, or who receive chemotherapy or long-term steroids are at risk.
Complications for Pneumonia:
Even with treatment, some people with pneumonia, especially those in high-risk groups, may experience complications, including:
Bacteria in the bloodstream (bacteremia). Bacteria that enter the bloodstream from your lungs can spread the infection to other organs, potentially causing organ failure.
Difficulty breathing. If your pneumonia is severe or you have chronic underlying lung diseases, you may have trouble breathing in enough oxygen. You may need to be hospitalized and use a breathing machine (ventilator) while your lung heals.
Fluid accumulation around the lungs (pleural effusion). Pneumonia may cause fluid to build up in the thin space between layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity (pleura). If the fluid becomes infected, you may need to have it drained through a chest tube or removed with surgery.
Lung abscess. An abscess occurs if pus forms in a cavity in the lung. An abscess is usually treated with antibiotics. Sometimes, surgery or drainage with a long needle or tube placed into the abscess is needed to remove the pus.
Preventions for Pneumonia
To help prevent pneumonia:
Get vaccinated. Vaccines are available to prevent some types of pneumonia and the flu. Talk with your doctor about getting these shots. The vaccination guidelines have changed over time so make sure to review your vaccination status with your doctor even if you recall previously receiving a pneumonia vaccine.
Make sure children get vaccinated. Doctors recommend a different pneumonia vaccine for children younger than age 2 and for children ages 2 to 5 years who are at particular risk of pneumococcal disease. Children who attend a group child care center should also get the vaccine. Doctors also recommend flu shots for children older than 6 months.
Practice good hygiene. To protect yourself against respiratory infections that sometimes lead to pneumonia, wash your hands regularly or use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Don't smoke. Smoking damages your lungs' natural defenses against respiratory infections.
Keep your immune system strong. Get enough sleep, exercise regularly and eat a healthy diet.
Condition name:Pneumonitis
Overview of Pneumonitis:
Pneumonitis (noo-moe-NIE-tis) is a general term that refers to swelling and irritation, also called inflammation, of lung tissue. Lung infections such as pneumonia also can cause lung tissue to become inflamed. But pneumonitis generally refers to inflamed lung tissue not caused by an infection.
Pneumonitis is a result of an extra strong defense response by the body's immune system to an irritating substance. Common causes of pneumonitis include airborne irritants at a job, in the home or from hobbies. Other causes include some cancer treatments and many different medicines.
Trouble breathing, and often a dry cough, are the most common symptoms of pneumonitis. Treatment focuses on avoiding irritants and lessening the inflammation of lung tissue.
Home Remedies for Pneumonitis:
A diagnosis of pneumonitis may mean that you'll have to make changes to your lifestyle to protect your health. You'll need to avoid known triggers as much as possible.
Don't smoke. Smoking can make lung damage worse. If you need help quitting, talk to your healthcare professional.
If your job duties expose you to substances that irritate your lungs, talk to your healthcare professional and supervisor at work about ways to protect yourself. If a hobby is causing the problem, you may have to find a different hobby.
Symptoms for Pneumonitis :
Symptoms of pneumonitis may develop quickly or slowly and can worsen over time. At times symptoms may suddenly get worse or better. Also, symptoms vary greatly among people with the condition and include:
Trouble breathing.
Dry cough that usually doesn't bring up any mucus.
Extreme tiredness.
Loss of appetite.
Fever.
Joint and muscle pain.
Headache.
Weight loss.
Causes for Pneumonitis :
Pneumonitis happens when an irritating substance causes inflammation in the tiny air sacs called alveoli in your lungs. Inflamed lung tissue makes it hard for oxygen to pass through the alveoli into the bloodstream.
Many causes have been linked to pneumonitis. But it's not clear why some people have a strong immune system response to certain substances that cause pneumonitis, while others do not. For many people, the specific substance causing the inflammation is never identified.
Some types of pneumonitis include hypersensitivity pneumonitis, drug-induced pneumonitis and radiation-induced pneumonitis.
There are no Risk Factors available for Pneumonitis in the knowledge baseComplications for Pneumonitis:
If pneumonitis is not detected or not treated, you may gradually develop lung damage that can't be reversed.
In healthy lungs, the air sacs stretch and relax with each breath. Ongoing inflammation of the thin tissue lining each air sac causes scarring and makes the air sacs less flexible. They become stiff like a dried sponge. This is called pulmonary fibrosis. In severe cases, pulmonary fibrosis can cause high blood pressure in the lungs, right-sided heart failure, respiratory failure or death.
There are no preventive measures available for Pneumonitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pneumothorax
Overview of Pneumothorax:
A pneumothorax (noo-moe-THOR-aks) is a collapsed lung. A pneumothorax occurs when air leaks into the space between your lung and chest wall. This air pushes on the outside of your lung and makes it collapse. A pneumothorax can be a complete lung collapse or a collapse of only a portion of the lung.
A pneumothorax can be caused by a blunt or penetrating chest injury, certain medical procedures, or damage from underlying lung disease. Or it may occur for no obvious reason. Symptoms usually include sudden chest pain and shortness of breath. On some occasions, a collapsed lung can be a life-threatening event.
Treatment for a pneumothorax usually involves inserting a needle or chest tube between the ribs to remove the excess air. However, a small pneumothorax may heal on its own.
There are no home remedies available for Pneumothorax in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pneumothorax :
The main symptoms of a pneumothorax are sudden chest pain and shortness of breath. Severity of symptoms may depend on how much of the lung is collapsed.
Causes for Pneumothorax :
A pneumothorax can be caused by:
Chest injury. Any blunt or penetrating injury to your chest can cause lung collapse. Some injuries may happen during physical assaults or car crashes, while others may inadvertently occur during medical procedures that involve the insertion of a needle into the chest.
Lung disease. Damaged lung tissue is more likely to collapse. Lung damage can be caused by many types of underlying diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cystic fibrosis, lung cancer or pneumonia. Cystic lung diseases, such as lymphangioleiomyomatosis and Birt-Hogg-Dube syndrome, cause round, thin-walled air sacs in the lung tissue that can rupture, resulting in pneumothorax.
Ruptured air blisters. Small air blisters (blebs) can develop on the top of the lungs. These air blisters sometimes burst — allowing air to leak into the space that surrounds the lungs.
Mechanical ventilation. A severe type of pneumothorax can occur in people who need mechanical assistance to breathe. The ventilator can create an imbalance of air pressure within the chest. The lung may collapse completely.
Risk Factors for Pneumothorax:
In general, men are far more likely to have a pneumothorax than women are. The type of pneumothorax caused by ruptured air blisters is most likely to occur in people between 20 and 40 years old, especially if the person is very tall and underweight.
Underlying lung disease or mechanical ventilation can be a cause or a risk factor for a pneumothorax. Other risk factors include:
Smoking. The risk increases with the length of time and the number of cigarettes smoked, even without emphysema.
Genetics. Certain types of pneumothorax appear to run in families.
Previous pneumothorax. Anyone who has had one pneumothorax is at increased risk of another.
Complications for Pneumothorax:
Potential complications vary, depending on the size and severity of the pneumothorax as well as the cause and treatment. Sometimes air may continue to leak if the opening in the lung won't close or pneumothorax may recur.
There are no preventive measures available for Pneumothorax in the knowledge baseCondition name:POEMS syndrome
Overview of POEMS syndrome:
POEMS syndrome is a rare blood disorder that damages your nerves and affects other parts of your body. POEMS stands for these signs and symptoms:
Polyneuropathy. Numbness, tingling and weakness in your legs — and over time, maybe in your hands — and difficulty breathing. This is an essential feature in the diagnosis of POEMS syndrome.
Organomegaly. Enlarged spleen, liver or lymph nodes.
Endocrinopathy/edema. Abnormal hormone levels that can result in an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism), diabetes, sexual problems, fatigue, swelling in your limbs, and problems with metabolism and other essential functions.
Monoclonal-protein. Abnormal bone marrow cells (plasma cells) that produce a protein (monoclonal protein) that can be found in the bloodstream. This is an essential feature in the diagnosis of POEMS syndrome. Monoclonal-protein is often associated with unusual bone hardening or thickening.
Skin changes. More color than normal on your skin, red spots, possibly thicker skin, and increased facial or leg hair.
The cause of POEMS syndrome isn't known. But people with POEMS syndrome have an increased number of plasma cells. These cells produce an abnormal amount of a type of protein, which can damage other parts of the body.
POEMS syndrome can be misdiagnosed because the signs and symptoms mimic those of other disorders. POEMS syndrome progresses rapidly without treatment and can become life-threatening, so early diagnosis is important.
Treatment for POEMS syndrome might improve your symptoms but doesn't cure the condition. Treatment options include radiation therapy, chemotherapy and stem cell transplant. The outlook for people with POEMS syndrome has improved greatly over the past decade or so.
There are no home remedies available for POEMS syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for POEMS syndrome :
Not found
There are no Causes available for POEMS syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for POEMS syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for POEMS syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for POEMS syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Poison ivy rash
Overview of Poison ivy rash:
Poison ivy rash is caused by an allergic reaction to an oily resin called urushiol (u-ROO-she-ol). This oil is in the leaves, stems and roots of poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac.
Wash your skin right away if you come into contact with this oil, unless you know you're not sensitive to it. Washing off the oil may reduce your chances of getting a poison ivy rash. If you develop a rash, it can be very itchy and last for weeks.
You can treat mild cases of poison ivy rash at home with soothing lotions and cool baths. You may need prescription medication for a rash that's severe or widespread — especially if it's on your face or genitals.
Home Remedies for Poison ivy rash:
A poison ivy rash will eventually go away on its own. But the itching can be hard to deal with and make it difficult to sleep. If you scratch your blisters, they may become infected. Here are some steps you can take to help control the itching:
Apply an over-the-counter cortisone cream or ointment (Cortizone 10) for the first few days.
Apply calamine lotion or creams containing menthol.
Take oral antihistamines, such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl), which may also help you sleep better. An over-the-counter antihistamine that won't make you so drowsy is loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others).
Soak the affected area in a cool-water bath that has about a half cup (100 grams) of baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno) in it.
Place cool, wet compresses on the affected area for 15 to 30 minutes several times a day.
Mayo Clinic Minute: How to treat poison ivy rash
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: How to treat poison ivy rash
Symptoms for Poison ivy rash :
Signs and symptoms of a poison ivy rash include:
Redness
Itching
Swelling
Blisters
Difficulty breathing, if you've inhaled the smoke from burning poison ivy
Poison ivy rash often appears in a straight line because of the way the plant brushes against your skin. But if you develop a rash after touching a piece of clothing or pet fur that has urushiol on it, the rash may be more spread out. You can also transfer the oil to other parts of your body with your fingers. The reaction usually develops 12 to 48 hours after exposure and lasts two to three weeks.
The severity of the rash depends on the amount of urushiol that gets on your skin.
Causes for Poison ivy rash :
Poison ivy rash is caused by an allergic reaction to an oily resin called urushiol. It's found in poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac. This oily resin is very sticky, so it easily attaches to your skin, clothing, tools, equipment and pet's fur. You can get a poison ivy reaction from:
Touching the plant. If you touch the leaves, stem, roots or berries of the plant, you may have a reaction.
Touching contaminated objects. If you walk through some poison ivy and then later touch your shoes, you might get urushiol on your hands. You might then transfer it to your face or body by touching or rubbing. If the contaminated object isn't cleaned, the urushiol on it can still cause a skin reaction years later.
Inhaling smoke from the burning plants. Even the smoke from burning poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac can irritate or harm your nasal passages or lungs.
Pus that oozes from blisters doesn't contain urushiol and won't spread the rash. But it's possible to get poison ivy rash from someone if you touch plant resin that's still on the person or contaminated clothing.
Risk Factors for Poison ivy rash:
Your risk of a rash is increased if you participate in outdoor activities that put you at higher risk of exposure to poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac:
Cable or telephone line installation
Camping
Construction
Farming
Firefighting
Fishing from the shoreline
Forestry
Gardening
Hiking
Hunting
Landscaping
Complications for Poison ivy rash:
If you scratch a poison ivy rash, bacteria under your fingernails may cause the skin to become infected. See your doctor if pus starts oozing from the blisters. Your doctor might prescribe antibiotics. Serious difficulty breathing and inflammation of the lining of the lungs may result from inhaling urushiol.
Preventions for Poison ivy rash
To prevent poison ivy rash, follow these tips:
Avoid the plants. Learn how to identify poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac in all seasons. When hiking or engaging in other activities that might expose you to these plants, try to stay on cleared pathways. Wear socks, pants and long sleeves when outdoors. If camping, make sure you pitch your tent in an area free of these plants.
Keep pets from running through wooded areas so that urushiol doesn't stick to their fur, which you then may touch.
Wear protective clothing. If needed, protect your skin by wearing socks, boots, pants, long sleeves and heavy gloves.
Remove or kill the plants. Identify and remove poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac from your yard or garden. You can get rid of such plants by applying an herbicide or pulling them out of the ground, including the roots, while wearing heavy gloves. Afterward remove the gloves carefully and wash them and your hands. Don't burn poison ivy or related plants because the urushiol can be carried by the smoke.
Wash your skin or your pet's fur. Within 30 minutes after exposure to urushiol, use soap and water to gently wash off the harmful resin from your skin. Scrub under your fingernails too. Even washing after an hour or so can help reduce the severity of the rash.
If you think your pet may be contaminated with urushiol, put on some long rubber gloves and give your pet a bath.
Clean contaminated objects. If you think you've come into contact with poison ivy, wash your clothing promptly in warm soapy water — ideally in a washing machine. Handle contaminated clothing carefully so that you don't transfer the urushiol to yourself, furniture, rugs or appliances.
Also wash as soon as possible any other items that came in contact with the plant oil — such as outdoor gear, garden tools, jewelry, shoes and even shoelaces. Urushiol can remain potent for years. So if you put away a contaminated jacket without washing it and take it out a year later, the oil on the jacket may still cause a rash.
Apply a barrier cream. Try over-the-counter skin products that are intended to act as a barrier between your skin and the oily resin that causes poison ivy rash.
Condition name:Polio
Overview of Polio:
Polio is an illness caused by a virus that mainly affects nerves in the spinal cord or brain stem. In its most severe form, polio can lead to a person being unable to move certain limbs, also called paralysis. It can also lead to trouble breathing and sometimes death. The disease also is called poliomyelitis.
A vaccination effort throughout the world has led to only a small number of cases to occur around the world in recent years. But poliovirus still spreads within areas with low vaccination rates.
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) publishes travel notices of countries where there is a higher risk of polio. Countries at a higher risk of polio are generally in Africa, the Middle East, and southern and central Asia.
Vaccinated adults who plan to travel to an area where polio is spreading should get a booster dose of inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV). Immunity after a booster lasts a lifetime.
There are no home remedies available for Polio in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Polio :
Most people infected with the virus that causes polio, called poliovirus, don't get symptoms.
Causes for Polio :
Polio is caused by the poliovirus. It mainly targets nerve cells in the spinal cord and brain stem that control muscle movement. Nerve cells controlling sensation are generally not affected.
The naturally-occurring poliovirus, called the wild-type poliovirus, has been eliminated in most countries and causes few cases of polio. Another version of the virus, called the vaccine-derived poliovirus (VDPV), is more widespread and now causes most infections worldwide. VDPV exists mainly in a few countries that use an oral vaccine with a weakened poliovirus.
The weakened virus in the oral vaccine doesn't itself cause polio, and vaccinated people rarely contract VDPV. Instead, VDPV is a new version of the virus that develops within a community or region where not enough people are vaccinated.
Even though the weakened virus in the oral vaccine doesn't cause illness, it can spread. If most people in a community are vaccinated, the spread of the weakened virus is controlled. If many people aren't vaccinated, the weakened virus can move through a community for a long time. This gives the virus the chance to change, or mutate, and behave like the wild-type virus that causes illness.
Infections from VDPV have been reported in the United States. In each case, the person was either not vaccinated or had a significantly weakened immune system. One case in New York in 2022 was in a county with a lower-than-average polio vaccination rate. Samples from wastewater showed that VDPV was spreading in some communities.
Since 2000, polio vaccination in the United States has used an injected vaccine with an inactivated poliovirus that doesn't create the risk for VDPV.
Risk Factors for Polio:
Polio mainly affects children. But anyone who hasn't been vaccinated is at risk of getting the disease.
Complications for Polio:
Severe disease that affects the ability to breathe can cause death. Long-term complications for people who recover may include:
Permanent paralysis
Muscle shortening that causes deformed bones or joints
Chronic pain
Post-polio syndrome
Preventions for Polio
The most effective way to prevent polio is vaccination.
Condition name:Polycystic kidney disease
Overview of Polycystic kidney disease:
Polycystic kidney disease (PKD) is a condition in which clusters of cysts grow in the body, mainly in the kidneys. Over time, the cysts may cause the kidneys to get bigger and stop working. PKD is most often passed through families. This is called an inherited condition.
Cysts are round sacs with fluid in them. They are not cancer. In PKD, the cysts vary in size. They can grow very large. Having many cysts or large cysts can damage the kidneys.
Polycystic kidney disease also can cause cysts to grow in the liver, the pancreas and other places in the body. The disease can cause serious complications, including high blood pressure and kidney failure.
PKD varies greatly in how bad it is. It's possible to prevent some complications. Lifestyle changes and treatments might help reduce damage to the kidneys.
There are no home remedies available for Polycystic kidney disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Polycystic kidney disease :
Polycystic kidney disease symptoms can include:
High blood pressure.
Belly, side or back pain.
Blood in the urine.
A feeling of fullness in the belly.
Increased size of the belly from enlarged kidneys.
Headaches.
Kidney stones.
Kidney failure.
Urinary tract or kidney infections.
Causes for Polycystic kidney disease :
Gene changes cause polycystic kidney disease. Most often, the condition runs in families. Sometimes, a gene change happens on its own in a child. This is known as a spontaneous gene change. Then neither parent has a copy of the changed gene.
There are two main types of polycystic kidney disease. They're caused by different gene changes. The two types of PKD are:
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). This is the most common type of ongoing kidney disease that's passed through families, also called inherited. Symptoms of ADPKD often start between the ages of 30 and 40.
Only one parent needs to have the condition to pass it to the children. If one parent has ADPKD, each child has a 50% chance of getting the condition. This is the more common type of polycystic kidney disease.
Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease (ARPKD). This type is far less common than is ADPKD. The symptoms often appear soon after birth. Sometimes, symptoms don't appear until later in childhood or during the teen years.
Both parents must have gene changes to pass on this form of the condition. If both parents carry a changed gene, each child has a 25% chance of getting the condition.
Risk Factors for Polycystic kidney disease:
The biggest risk factor for getting polycystic kidney disease is getting the gene changes that cause the disease from one or both parents.
Complications for Polycystic kidney disease:
Complications linked to polycystic kidney disease include:
High blood pressure. This is common in polycystic kidney disease. Not treated, high blood pressure can cause more damage to the kidneys and increase the risk of heart disease and strokes.
Loss of kidney function. The kidneys' losing their ability to do their work is one of the most serious complications of polycystic kidney disease. Nearly half of people with the condition have kidney failure by age 60. But for some people, it starts in the early 30s.
Pain. It's common to have pain with polycystic kidney disease. Pain often is in the side or back. The pain can come and go or be ongoing. The pain may be linked to bleeding into a cyst, a urinary tract infection, a kidney stone or, less often, cancer.
Cysts in the liver. The older people with polycystic kidney disease get, the more likely it is they'll get cysts in the liver. With cysts, the liver most often keeps working.
Women tend to get larger cysts than do men. Hormones and pregnancies might be part of the reason.
Brain aneurysm. A balloonlike bulge in a blood vessel, called an aneurysm, in the brain can cause bleeding if it bursts. People with polycystic kidney disease have a higher risk of aneurysms. People with a family history of aneurysms seem to be at highest risk.
Ask your healthcare professional if you need screening. If screening doesn't show an aneurysm, your healthcare professional may suggest screening again in a few years. The timing of repeat screening depends on your risk.
Pregnancy complications. Most people with polycystic kidney disease can have success with pregnancy. But sometimes, they can get a life-threatening condition called preeclampsia during pregnancy. Those most at risk have high blood pressure or a loss of kidney function before they become pregnant.
Heart valve conditions. As many as 1 in 4 adults with polycystic kidney disease gets mitral valve prolapse. When this happens, the heart valve no longer closes well. This lets blood leak backward.
Colon conditions. People with polycystic kidney disease may get weaknesses and pouches or sacs called diverticula in the wall of the colon. This condition is called diverticulosis. Diverticula most often don't cause symptoms, but they may bleed or get infected.
Preventions for Polycystic kidney disease
If you have polycystic kidney disease and you're thinking about having children, a genetic counselor can help you know your risk of passing the disease to your children.
Keeping your kidneys as healthy as possible may help prevent some of the complications of this disease. It's most important to manage your blood pressure.
Here are some tips for keeping your blood pressure in check:
Take the blood pressure medicines your healthcare professional prescribes as directed.
Eat a low-salt diet that has plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Get to and stay at a healthy weight.
Exercise regularly. Aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity most days of the week.
Limit alcohol use.
Don't smoke.
Condition name:Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Overview of Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS):
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a problem with hormones that happens during the reproductive years. If you have PCOS, you may not have periods very often. Or you may have periods that last many days. You may also have too much of a hormone called androgen in your body.
With PCOS, many small sacs of fluid develop along the outer edge of the ovary. These are called cysts. The small fluid-filled cysts contain immature eggs. These are called follicles. The follicles fail to regularly release eggs.
The exact cause of PCOS is unknown. Early diagnosis and treatment along with weight loss may lower the risk of long-term complications such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
Home Remedies for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS):
To help ease the effects of PCOS, try to:
Stay at a healthy weight. Weight loss can lower insulin and androgen levels. It also may restore ovulation. Ask your health care provider about a weight-control program, if you need one. Meet with a registered dietitian for help in reaching weight-loss goals.
Limit carbohydrates. High-carbohydrate diets might make insulin levels go higher. Ask your provider if a low-carbohydrate diet could help if you have PCOS. Choose complex carbohydrates, which raise your blood sugar levels more slowly. Complex carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and cooked dry beans and peas.
Be active. Exercise helps lower blood sugar levels. If you have PCOS, increasing your daily activity and getting regular exercise may treat or even prevent insulin resistance. Being active may also help you keep your weight under control and avoid developing diabetes.
Symptoms for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) :
Symptoms of PCOS often start around the time of the first menstrual period. Sometimes symptoms develop later after you have had periods for a while.
The symptoms of PCOS vary. A diagnosis of PCOS is made when you have at least two of these:
Irregular periods. Having few menstrual periods or having periods that aren't regular are common signs of PCOS. So is having periods that last for many days or longer than is typical for a period. For example, you might have fewer than nine periods a year. And those periods may occur more than 35 days apart. You may have trouble getting pregnant.
Too much androgen. High levels of the hormone androgen may result in excess facial and body hair. This is called hirsutism. Sometimes, severe acne and male-pattern baldness can happen, too.
Polycystic ovaries. Your ovaries might be bigger. Many follicles containing immature eggs may develop around the edge of the ovary. The ovaries might not work the way they should.
PCOS signs and symptoms are typically more severe in people with obesity.
Causes for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) :
The exact cause of PCOS isn't known. Factors that might play a role include:
Insulin resistance. Insulin is a hormone that the pancreas makes. It allows cells to use sugar, your body's primary energy supply. If cells become resistant to the action of insulin, then blood sugar levels can go up. This can cause your body to make more insulin to try to bring down the blood sugar level.
Too much insulin might cause your body to make too much of the male hormone androgen. You could have trouble with ovulation, the process where eggs are released from the ovary.
One sign of insulin resistance is dark, velvety patches of skin on the lower part of the neck, armpits, groin or under the breasts. A bigger appetite and weight gain may be other signs.
Low-grade inflammation. White blood cells make substances in response to infection or injury. This response is called low-grade inflammation. Research shows that people with PCOS have a type of long-term, low-grade inflammation that leads polycystic ovaries to produce androgens. This can lead to heart and blood vessel problems.
Heredity. Research suggests that certain genes might be linked to PCOS. Having a family history of PCOS may play a role in developing the condition.
Excess androgen. With PCOS, the ovaries may produce high levels of androgen. Having too much androgen interferes with ovulation. This means that eggs don't develop on a regular basis and aren't released from the follicles where they develop. Excess androgen also can result in hirsutism and acne.
There are no Risk Factors available for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in the knowledge baseComplications for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS):
Complications of PCOS can include:
Infertility
Gestational diabetes or pregnancy-induced high blood pressure
Miscarriage or premature birth
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis — a severe liver inflammation caused by fat buildup in the liver
Metabolic syndrome — a cluster of conditions including high blood pressure, high blood sugar, and unhealthy cholesterol or triglyceride levels that significantly increase your risk of heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease
Type 2 diabetes or prediabetes
Sleep apnea
Depression, anxiety and eating disorders
Cancer of the uterine lining (endometrial cancer)
Obesity commonly occurs with PCOS and can worsen complications of the disorder.
There are no preventive measures available for Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Polyhydramnios
Overview of Polyhydramnios:
Polyhydramnios (pol-e-hi-DRAM-nee-os) is the buildup of increased amniotic fluid — the fluid that surrounds the baby in the uterus during pregnancy. Polyhydramnios happens in about 1% to 2% of pregnancies.
Most of the time, the condition is mild. It's often found during the middle or later stages of pregnancy. Severe polyhydramnios may cause shortness of breath, preterm labor or other symptoms.
If you learn that you have polyhydramnios, your health care team carefully tracks your pregnancy to help prevent health problems. Treatment depends on how serious the condition is. Mild polyhydramnios may go away on its own. Severe polyhydramnios may need to be watched more closely by your care team.
There are no home remedies available for Polyhydramnios in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Polyhydramnios :
Polyhydramnios symptoms may be linked with the buildup of amniotic fluid creating pressure within the uterus and on nearby organs. Mild polyhydramnios often causes few or no symptoms. But serious forms of the condition may cause:
Shortness of breath or not being able to breathe.
Swelling in the ankles or feet.
Pain in the stomach area.
Feelings of tightness in the muscles of the uterus, called contractions.
Your health care professional also may also suspect polyhydramnios if your uterus has become large for the number of weeks of pregnancy.
Causes for Polyhydramnios :
Some of the known causes of polyhydramnios include:
Conditions that affect the baby's digestive tract, central nervous system or certain other organs.
Genetic conditions that affect the baby.
Diabetes in the pregnant person.
A complication of identical twin pregnancies in which one twin receives too much blood and the other too little. This is called twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome.
A decreased amount of red blood cells in the baby, also called fetal anemia.
A condition in which the pregnant parent's blood cells attack the baby's blood cells.
Infection during pregnancy.
Often, the cause of polyhydramnios isn't clear, especially when the condition is mild.
Risk Factors for Polyhydramnios:
Risk factors for polyhydramnios include certain conditions that develop during pregnancy, such as gestational diabetes. A condition that affects the developing baby, such as a problem with the digestive tract, central nervous system or other organs, may also put you at risk of polyhydramnios.
Complications for Polyhydramnios:
Polyhydramnios is linked with:
The baby being born too early, also called premature birth.
The baby not being head-down in the ideal position before delivery, also called a breech birth.
The water breaking early, also called premature rupture of membranes.
The baby's umbilical cord dropping into the vagina ahead of the baby, also called umbilical cord prolapse.
The organ that provides oxygen and nutrients to the unborn baby, the placenta, peeling away from the inner wall of the uterus before delivery. This is called placental abruption.
Need for a C-section delivery.
Pregnancy loss after 20 weeks, also called stillbirth.
Heavy bleeding due to decreased uterine muscle tone after delivery.
Greater health problems usually are linked with severe polyhydramnios.
There are no preventive measures available for Polyhydramnios in the knowledge baseCondition name:Polymyositis
Overview of Polymyositis:
Polymyositis (pol-e-my-o-SY-tis) is an uncommon inflammatory disease that causes muscle weakness affecting both sides of your body. Having this condition can make it difficult to climb stairs, rise from a seated position, lift objects or reach overhead.
Polymyositis most commonly affects adults in their 30s, 40s or 50s. Women are affected more often than men. Signs and symptoms usually develop gradually, over weeks or months.
While there is no cure for polymyositis, treatment — ranging from medications to physical therapy — can improve your muscle strength and function.
There are no home remedies available for Polymyositis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Polymyositis :
The muscle weakness associated with polymyositis involves the muscles closest to the trunk, such as those in your hips, thighs, shoulders, upper arms and neck. The weakness affects both the left and right sides of your body, and tends to gradually worsen.
Causes for Polymyositis :
The exact cause of polymyositis is unknown, but the disease shares many characteristics with autoimmune disorders, in which your immune system mistakenly attacks your own body tissues.
Risk Factors for Polymyositis:
Your risk of polymyositis is higher if you have lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, or Sjogren's syndrome.
Complications for Polymyositis:
Possible complications of polymyositis include:
Difficulty swallowing. If the muscles in your esophagus are affected, you may have problems swallowing (dysphagia), which in turn may cause weight loss and malnutrition.
Aspiration pneumonia. Difficulty swallowing may also cause you to breathe food or liquids, including saliva, into your lungs (aspiration), which can lead to pneumonia.
Breathing problems. If your chest muscles are affected by the disease, you may experience breathing problems, such as shortness of breath or, in severe cases, respiratory failure.
There are no preventive measures available for Polymyositis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Popliteal artery aneurysm
Overview of Popliteal artery aneurysm:
A popliteal artery aneurysm is an irregular bulge that occurs in the wall of the artery located behind the knee joint. It is a type of lower extremity aneurysm.
There are no home remedies available for Popliteal artery aneurysm in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Popliteal artery aneurysm :
You might not notice any symptoms. The first symptom may be pain in the lower leg that occurs with walking, called claudication. Other symptoms of a popliteal artery aneurysm include:
Knee pain.
Lower leg pain.
Swelling behind the knee.
Pulsing feeling behind the knee.
Causes for Popliteal artery aneurysm :
An aneurysm is a ballooning in a weak spot in an artery wall. Many different things can cause the popliteal artery wall to become weak, including:
Atherosclerosis.
High blood pressure.
Wear and tear of the popliteal artery due to repeat use of the knee joint.
Risk Factors for Popliteal artery aneurysm:
Popliteal artery aneurysms are rare. They are more common in men than in women.
Popliteal artery aneurysm often occurs in men with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). An abdominal aortic aneurysm is a swelling of the wall of the body's main artery, called the aorta. Anyone diagnosed with popliteal artery aneurysm should be screened for AAA.
Other risk factors for popliteal artery aneurysm include:
Growing older.
High blood pressure.
Smoking.
Narrowing of a heart valve.
Having three or more aneurysms anywhere in the body.
Complications for Popliteal artery aneurysm:
Complications of popliteal artery aneurysm include blood clots. Blood clots can cause a severe lack of blood flow in the lower leg.
A severe lack of blood flow can cause the following symptoms:
A change in skin color in the affected area.
No pulse behind the knee.
Skin in the affected area feels cold.
Numbness in the leg.
Inability to move the foot.
A severe lack of blood flow may result in loss of the limb. Rarely, the aneurysm may rupture. But the risk of popliteal artery aneurysm rupture is low.
Preventions for Popliteal artery aneurysm
Smoking and high blood pressure increase the risk of blood vessel problems that can lead to popliteal artery and other aneurysms. Following a heart-healthy lifestyle can help prevent heart disease and blood vessel damage.
Try these heart-healthy tips:
Do not smoke.
Eat a nutritious diet.
Get regular exercise.
Condition name:Popliteal artery entrapment
Overview of Popliteal artery entrapment:
Popliteal artery entrapment syndrome (PAES) is an uncommon condition that affects the main artery behind the knee. That artery is called the popliteal artery. In this condition, the calf muscle is in the wrong position or it's larger than usual. The muscle presses on the artery. The artery becomes trapped, making it harder for blood to flow to the lower leg and foot.
Popliteal artery entrapment syndrome is most common among athletes.
There are no home remedies available for Popliteal artery entrapment in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Popliteal artery entrapment :
The main symptom of popliteal artery entrapment syndrome (PAES) is pain or cramping in the back of the lower leg. The back of the lower leg is called the calf. The pain occurs during exercise and goes away with rest. Other symptoms may include:
Cold feet after exercise.
Tingling or burning in your calf.
Numbness in the calf area.
If the nearby vein, called the popliteal vein, also becomes trapped by the calf muscle, you may have:
A heavy feeling in the leg.
Lower leg cramping at night.
Swelling in the calf area.
Changes in skin color around the calf muscle.
Blood clot in the lower leg, called deep vein thrombosis.
Symptoms typically affect young, otherwise healthy people under age 40.
Causes for Popliteal artery entrapment :
Popliteal artery entrapment syndrome (PAES) is caused by an irregular calf muscle, usually the gastrocnemius muscle.
The condition may be seen at birth, or it may occur later in life. When it's present at birth, the baby's calf muscle or nearby artery forms in the wrong place during pregnancy. People who get the condition later in life have a calf muscle that is bigger than usual.
The changes in the calf muscle cause it to press on the main artery behind the knee. This reduces blood flow to the lower leg. The lack of blood flow causes pain and cramping in the back of the lower leg during times of activity.
Risk Factors for Popliteal artery entrapment:
Popliteal artery entrapment syndrome (PAES) is uncommon. The following things increase the risk of the condition.
Younger age. The condition is most often seen in people who are in their late teens or 20s. It's rarely diagnosed in those over age 40.
Being male. PAES can occur in anyone, but it's much more common in young men.
Strenuous athletic activity. Runners, bicyclists, and athletes who try to build muscle fast with weight training routines or high-intensity circuit training are at the highest risk.
Complications for Popliteal artery entrapment:
Long-term pressure on the popliteal artery can cause the artery to narrow. This is called artery stenosis. It can cause pain and cramping with just slight activity, such as walking.
In severe cases or when undiagnosed, the nerves and muscles in the leg can become damaged. Blood clots may occur in the lower leg. Older athletes with symptoms of popliteal artery entrapment syndrome should be checked for a ballooning or bulging of the artery. This is called a popliteal aneurysm. It is common in older men.
There are no preventive measures available for Popliteal artery entrapment in the knowledge baseCondition name:Porphyria
Overview of Porphyria:
Porphyria (por-FEAR-e-uh) refers to a group of rare disorders that result from a buildup of natural chemicals called porphyrins in the body. Porphyrins are needed to make heme, a part of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein in red blood cells. It carries oxygen to the body's organs and tissues.
Eight enzymes are needed to change porphyrins into heme. Without enough of any of these enzymes, porphyrins build up in the body. High levels of porphyrins can cause major problems, mainly in the nervous system and skin.
There are two general types of porphyrias. Acute porphyrias start rapidly and mainly affect the nervous system. Cutaneous porphyrias mainly affect the skin. A few types of porphyrias affect both the nervous system and the skin.
Symptoms of porphyria vary, depending on the specific type of porphyria and how severe it is. Porphyria is usually inherited. One or both parents pass along a changed gene to their child.
Although porphyria can't be cured, medicines and certain lifestyle changes may help you manage it. Treatment for symptoms depends on the type of porphyria you have.
Home Remedies for Porphyria:
If you have porphyria:
Learn what could trigger symptoms. Talk to your health care provider about the type of porphyria you have. Learn about possible symptom triggers and how to avoid them.
Inform your health care providers. Tell all your providers that you have porphyria. This is important because sometimes treatments, medicines, illness or surgery can trigger porphyria symptoms.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace. Have information about your condition placed on a medical alert bracelet or necklace. Always wear it.
Symptoms for Porphyria :
Symptoms can vary widely by type of porphyria and in how severe the symptoms are. Symptoms also can vary among people with the condition. Some people with a gene change that causes porphyria never have any symptoms.
Causes for Porphyria :
All types of porphyria involve a problem making heme. Heme is a part of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body. Heme also plays a role in clearing drugs and hormones from the body.
Heme is made in the bone marrow and liver. This process involves eight different enzymes that turn porphyrins into heme. A shortage or change in any of these enzymes causes a buildup of porphyrins. Which enzyme is affected determines the type of porphyria.
In cutaneous porphyrias, porphyrins build up in the skin. When exposed to sunlight, they cause symptoms. In acute porphyrias, the buildup affects the nervous system, causing symptoms.
Risk Factors for Porphyria:
In addition to genetic risk factors, environmental risk factors may trigger symptoms in porphyria. When exposed to the trigger, the body's demand for heme production increases. This overwhelms the low level of a needed enzyme, setting in motion a process that causes a buildup of porphyrins.
Examples of triggers include:
Exposure to sunlight.
Certain medicines, for example, birth control pills, sedatives and barbiturates.
Recreational or illicit drugs.
Dieting or fasting.
Smoking.
Physical stress, such as infections or other illnesses or surgery.
Emotional stress.
Alcohol use.
Hormone changes during the menstrual period.
Complications for Porphyria:
Possible complications depend on the form of porphyria:
Acute porphyrias can be life-threatening if an attack isn't promptly treated. During an attack, you may experience dehydration from loss of fluids, breathing problems, seizures or high blood pressure. You may need a stay in the hospital for treatment. Long-term complications with repeat acute attacks may include long-term pain, chronic kidney failure, liver damage or liver cancer.
Cutaneous porphyrias can result in permanent skin damage. And the skin blisters can become infected. When your skin heals after symptoms, it may have a changed appearance and coloring, be fragile and slow to heal, or leave scars. Cutaneous porphyrias also increase the risk of liver damage or liver cancer.
In rare cases, a bone marrow transplant or liver transplant may be needed.
Preventions for Porphyria
Although there's no way to prevent porphyria, if you have the condition, avoid triggers to help prevent symptoms.
Because porphyria is usually an inherited disorder, your siblings and other family members may want to consider genetic testing to determine if they have the condition. Genetic counseling is important to help understand test results and risks.
Condition name:Posterior cortical atrophy
Overview of Posterior cortical atrophy:
Posterior cortical atrophy is a brain and nervous system syndrome that causes brain cells to die over time. It causes problems with eyesight and with processing visual information.
Common symptoms include trouble reading, judging distances and reaching for objects. People with the syndrome may not be able to recognize objects and familiar faces. They also may have trouble making calculations. Over time this condition may cause a decline in memory and thinking abilities, known as cognitive skills.
Posterior cortical atrophy causes the loss of brain cells in back of the brain. This is the region responsible for visual processing and spatial reasoning. This changes a person's ability to process visual and spatial information.
In more than 80% of cases, posterior cortical atrophy is due to Alzheimer's disease. However, it can be due to other neurological conditions such as Lewy body dementia or corticobasal degeneration.
There are no home remedies available for Posterior cortical atrophy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Posterior cortical atrophy :
Posterior cortical atrophy symptoms vary among people. Symptoms also can vary over time. They tend to gradually get worse. Common symptoms include having trouble with:
Reading, spelling or math.
Driving.
Getting dressed.
Telling the difference between objects that are moving and those that are still.
Judging how far away objects are.
Using everyday objects or tools.
Identifying left from right.
Other common symptoms include:
Anxiety.
Confusion.
Changes in behavior and personality.
Memory problems may occur later in the disease.
Causes for Posterior cortical atrophy :
The most common cause of posterior cortical atrophy is a form of Alzheimer's disease that's not typical. It affects the back of the brain. Other less common causes include corticobasal degeneration, Lewy body dementia and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Researchers are looking at potential gene variations that may be related to the condition.
Risk Factors for Posterior cortical atrophy:
Further study is needed to determine whether the risk factors for Alzheimer's disease may play a role in posterior cortical atrophy.
There are no Complications available for Posterior cortical atrophy in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Posterior cortical atrophy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele)
Overview of Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele):
A posterior vaginal prolapse is a bulge of tissue into the vagina. It happens when the tissue between the rectum and the vagina weakens or tears. This causes the rectum to push into the vaginal wall. Posterior vaginal prolapse is also called a rectocele (REK-toe-seel).
Childbirth-related tears, chronic straining to pass stool (constipation) and other activities that put pressure on pelvic tissues can lead to posterior vaginal prolapse. A small prolapse might not cause symptoms.
With a large prolapse, you might notice a bulge of tissue that pushes through the opening of the vagina. To pass stool, you might need to support the vaginal wall with your fingers. This is called splinting. The bulge can be uncomfortable, but it's rarely painful.
If needed, self-care measures and other nonsurgical options are often effective. For severe posterior vaginal prolapse, you might need surgery to fix it.
Home Remedies for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele):
Sometimes, self-care measures provide relief from prolapse symptoms. You could try to:
Perform Kegel exercises to strengthen pelvic muscles
Avoid constipation by eating high-fiber foods, drinking plenty of fluids and, if needed, taking a fiber supplement
Avoid bearing down during bowel movements
Avoid heavy lifting
Control coughing
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises strengthen pelvic floor muscles. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for pelvic organs. It also might relieve bulge symptoms that posterior vaginal prolapse can cause.
To perform Kegel exercises:
Find the right muscles. To find your pelvic floor muscles, try stopping urine midstream when you use the toilet. Once you know where these muscles are, you can practice these exercises. You can do the exercises in any position, although you might find it easiest to do them lying down at first.
Perfect your technique. To do Kegels, imagine you are sitting on a marble and tighten your pelvic muscles as if you're lifting the marble. Try it for three seconds at a time, then relax for a count of three.
Maintain your focus. For best results, focus on tightening only your pelvic floor muscles. Be careful not to flex the muscles in your abdomen, thighs or buttocks. Avoid holding your breath. Instead, breathe freely during the exercises.
Repeat three times a day. Aim for at least three sets of 10 to 15 repetitions a day.
Kegel exercises may be most successful when they're taught by a physical therapist or nurse practitioner and reinforced with biofeedback. Biofeedback uses monitoring devices to let you know that you're tightening the right set of muscles in the right way.
Symptoms for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele) :
A small posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele) might cause no symptoms.
Otherwise, you may notice:
A soft bulge of tissue in the vagina that might come through the opening of the vagina
Trouble having a bowel movement
Feeling pressure or fullness in the rectum
A feeling that the rectum has not completely emptied after a bowel movement
Sexual concerns, such as feeling embarrassed or sensing looseness in the tone of the vaginal tissue
Many women with posterior vaginal prolapse also have prolapse of other pelvic organs, such as the bladder or uterus. A surgeon can evaluate the prolapse and talk about options for surgery to fix it.
Causes for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele) :
Posterior vaginal prolapse results from pressure on the pelvic floor or trauma. Causes of increased pelvic floor pressure include:
Birth-related tears
Forceps or operative vaginal deliveries
Long-lasting constipation or straining with bowel movements
Long-lasting cough or bronchitis
Repeated heavy lifting
Being overweight
Risk Factors for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele):
Anyone with a vagina can develop posterior vaginal prolapse. However, the following might increase the risk:
Genetics. Some people are born with weaker connective tissues in the pelvic area. This makes them naturally more likely to develop posterior vaginal prolapse.
Childbirth. Having vaginally delivered more than one child increases the risk of developing posterior vaginal prolapse. Tears in the tissue between the vaginal opening and anus (perineal tears) or cuts that make the opening of the vagina bigger (episiotomies) during childbirth might also increase risk. Operative vaginal deliveries, and forceps specifically, increase the risk of developing this condition.
Aging. Growing older causes loss of muscle mass, elasticity and nerve function, which causes muscles to stretch or weaken.
Obesity. Extra body weight places stress on pelvic floor tissues.
There are no Complications available for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele) in the knowledge basePreventions for Posterior vaginal prolapse (rectocele)
To help keep posterior vaginal prolapse from getting worse, you might try to:
Perform Kegel exercises regularly. These exercises can strengthen pelvic floor muscles. This is especially important after having a baby.
Treat and prevent constipation. Drink plenty of fluids and eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, beans and whole-grain cereals.
Avoid heavy lifting and lift correctly. Use your legs instead of your waist or back to lift.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis, and don't smoke.
Avoid weight gain. Ask your health care provider to help you determine the best weight for you. Ask for advice on how to lose weight, if needed.
Condition name:Postherpetic neuralgia
Overview of Postherpetic neuralgia:
Postherpetic neuralgia (post-hur-PET-ik noo-RAL-juh) is the most common complication of shingles. It causes a burning pain in nerves and skin. The pain lasts long after the rash and blisters of shingles go away.
The risk of postherpetic neuralgia rises with age. It mainly affects people older than 60. There's no cure, but treatments can ease symptoms. For most people, postherpetic neuralgia gets better over time.
Home Remedies for Postherpetic neuralgia:
An over-the-counter medicine called capsaicin cream may ease the pain of postherpetic neuralgia. It's made from the seeds of hot chili peppers. Capsaicin (Capzasin-P, Zostrix, others) can cause a burning feeling and may bother your skin. These side effects usually fade over time. But you should use only a small amount when you first try it to make sure you don't have bad side effects.
Try not to get capsaicin cream on parts of your body that don't have symptoms. Follow all the instructions that come with the cream. Wear gloves when you put it on, and wash your hands afterward.
Symptoms for Postherpetic neuralgia :
In general, the symptoms of postherpetic neuralgia are limited to the area of skin where the shingles outbreak first happened. That's commonly in a band around the trunk of the body, most often on one side.
The symptoms might include:
Pain that lasts three months or longer after the shingles rash has healed. The pain may feel burning, sharp and jabbing. Or it may feel deep and aching.
Not being able to stand light touch. People with postherpetic neuralgia often can't bear even the touch of clothing on the affected skin.
Itching or loss of feeling. Less often, postherpetic neuralgia can cause an itchy feeling or numbness.
Causes for Postherpetic neuralgia :
The chickenpox virus causes shingles. Once you've had chickenpox, the virus stays in your body for the rest of your life. The virus can become active again and cause shingles. This risk goes up with age. The risk also rises if something turns down the body's immune system, such as chemotherapy medicines to treat cancer.
Postherpetic neuralgia happens if nerve fibers get damaged during an outbreak of shingles. Damaged fibers can't send messages from the skin to the brain as they usually do. Instead, the messages become confused and heightened. This causes pain that can last months or even years.
Risk Factors for Postherpetic neuralgia:
With shingles, things that can raise the risk of postherpetic neuralgia are:
Age. You're older than 60.
How bad the case of shingles was. You had a severe rash and pain that kept you from doing daily activities.
Other illness. You have a long-term disease, such as diabetes.
Where shingles appeared. You had shingles on your face or torso.
A delay in shingles treatment. You didn't start taking antiviral medicine within 72 hours of your rash appearing.
No shingles vaccine. You had not been vaccinated for shingles.
Complications for Postherpetic neuralgia:
People with postherpetic neuralgia can develop other problems that are common with long-term pain. It depends on how long the postherpetic neuralgia lasts and how painful it is. These other problems can include:
Depression.
Trouble sleeping.
Tiredness
Not feeling as hungry as usual.
Preventions for Postherpetic neuralgia
Shingles vaccines can help prevent shingles and postherpetic neuralgia. Ask your health care provider when you should get a vaccine.
In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) suggests that adults 50 and older get a shingles vaccine called Shingrix. The agency also suggests Shingrix for adults 19 and older who have weaker immune systems because of diseases or treatments. Shingrix is suggested even if you've already had shingles or the older vaccine, Zostavax. Shingrix is given in two doses, 2 to 6 months apart.
With two doses, Shingrix is more than 90% effective in preventing shingles and postherpetic neuralgia. Other shingles vaccines are offered outside of the United States. Talk to your provider for more information on how well they prevent shingles and postherpetic neuralgia.
Condition name:Postpartum depression
Overview of Postpartum depression:
The birth of a baby can start a variety of powerful emotions, from excitement and joy to fear and anxiety. But it can also result in something you might not expect — depression.
Most new moms experience postpartum "baby blues" after childbirth, which commonly include mood swings, crying spells, anxiety and difficulty sleeping. Baby blues usually begin within the first 2 to 3 days after delivery and may last for up to two weeks.
But some new moms experience a more severe, long-lasting form of depression known as postpartum depression. Sometimes it's called peripartum depression because it can start during pregnancy and continue after childbirth. Rarely, an extreme mood disorder called postpartum psychosis also may develop after childbirth.
Postpartum depression is not a character flaw or a weakness. Sometimes it's simply a complication of giving birth. If you have postpartum depression, prompt treatment can help you manage your symptoms and help you bond with your baby.
Home Remedies for Postpartum depression:
In addition to professional treatment, you can do some things for yourself that build on your treatment plan and help speed recovery.
Make healthy lifestyle choices. Include physical activity, such as a walk with your baby, and other forms of exercise in your daily routine. Try to get enough rest. Eat healthy foods and avoid alcohol.
Set realistic expectations. Don't pressure yourself to do everything. Scale back your expectations for the perfect household. Do what you can and leave the rest.
Make time for yourself. Take some time for yourself and get out of the house. That may mean asking a partner to take care of the baby or arranging for a sitter. Do something you enjoy, such as a hobby or some form of entertainment. You might also schedule some time alone with your partner or friends.
Avoid isolation. Talk with your partner, family and friends about how you're feeling. Ask other mothers about their experiences. Breaking the isolation may help you feel human again.
Ask for help. Try to open up to the people close to you and let them know you need help. If someone offers to babysit, take them up on it. If you can sleep, take a nap, or maybe you can see a movie or meet for coffee with friends. You may also benefit from asking for help with parenting skills that can include caregiving techniques to improve your baby's sleep and soothe fussing and crying.
Remember, taking care of your baby includes taking care of yourself.
Symptoms for Postpartum depression :
Symptoms of depression after childbirth vary, and they can range from mild to severe.
Causes for Postpartum depression :
There is no single cause of postpartum depression, but genetics, physical changes and emotional issues may play a role.
Genetics. Studies show that having a family history of postpartum depression — especially if it was major — increases the risk of experiencing postpartum depression.
Physical changes. After childbirth, a dramatic drop in the hormones estrogen and progesterone in your body may contribute to postpartum depression. Other hormones produced by your thyroid gland also may drop sharply — which can leave you feeling tired, sluggish and depressed.
Emotional issues. When you're sleep deprived and overwhelmed, you may have trouble handling even minor problems. You may be anxious about your ability to care for a newborn. You may feel less attractive, struggle with your sense of identity or feel that you've lost control over your life. Any of these issues can contribute to postpartum depression.
Risk Factors for Postpartum depression:
Any new mom can experience postpartum depression and it can develop after the birth of any child, not just the first. However, your risk increases if:
You have a history of depression, either during pregnancy or at other times.
You have bipolar disorder.
You had postpartum depression after a previous pregnancy.
You have family members who've had depression or other mood disorders.
You've experienced stressful events during the past year, such as pregnancy complications, illness or job loss.
Your baby has health problems or other special needs.
You have twins, triplets or other multiple births.
You have difficulty breastfeeding.
You're having problems in your relationship with your spouse or partner.
You have a weak support system.
You have financial problems.
The pregnancy was unplanned or unwanted.
Complications for Postpartum depression:
Left untreated, postpartum depression can interfere with mother-child bonding and cause family problems.
For mothers. Untreated postpartum depression can last for months or longer, sometimes becoming an ongoing depressive disorder. Mothers may stop breastfeeding, have problems bonding with and caring for their infants, and be at increased risk of suicide. Even when treated, postpartum depression increases a woman's risk of future episodes of major depression.
For the other parent. Postpartum depression can have a ripple effect, causing emotional strain for everyone close to a new baby. When a new mother is depressed, the risk of depression in the baby's other parent may also increase. And these other parents may already have an increased risk of depression, whether or not their partner is affected.
For children. Children of mothers who have untreated postpartum depression are more likely to have emotional and behavioral problems, such as sleeping and eating difficulties, crying too much, and delays in language development.
Preventions for Postpartum depression
If you have a history of depression — especially postpartum depression — tell your health care provider if you're planning on becoming pregnant or as soon as you find out you're pregnant.
During pregnancy, your provider can monitor you closely for symptoms of depression. You may complete a depression-screening questionnaire during your pregnancy and after delivery. Sometimes mild depression can be managed with support groups, counseling or other therapies. In other cases, antidepressants may be recommended — even during pregnancy.
After your baby is born, your provider may recommend an early postpartum checkup to screen for symptoms of postpartum depression. The earlier it's found, the earlier treatment can begin. If you have a history of postpartum depression, your provider may recommend antidepressant treatment or talk therapy immediately after delivery. Most antidepressants are safe to take while breastfeeding.
Condition name:Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Overview of Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD):
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental health condition that's caused by an extremely stressful or terrifying event — either being part of it or witnessing it. Symptoms may include flashbacks, nightmares, severe anxiety and uncontrollable thoughts about the event.
Most people who go through traumatic events may have a hard time adjusting and coping for a short time. But with time and by taking good care of themselves, they usually get better. If the symptoms get worse, last for months or years, and affect their ability to function daily, they may have PTSD.
Getting treatment after PTSD symptoms arise can be very important to ease symptoms and help people function better.
There are no home remedies available for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) :
Post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms may start within the first three months after a traumatic event. But sometimes symptoms may not appear until years after the event. These symptoms last more than one month and cause major problems in social or work situations and how well you get along with others. They also can affect your ability to do your usual daily tasks.
Generally, PTSD symptoms are grouped into four types: intrusive memories, avoidance, negative changes in thinking and mood, and changes in physical and emotional reactions. Symptoms can vary over time or vary from person to person.
Causes for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) :
You can develop post-traumatic stress disorder when you go through, see or learn about an event involving actual or threatened death, serious injury or sexual assault.
Healthcare professionals aren't sure why some people get PTSD. As with most mental health problems, a mix of factors probably causes it, including:
Extremely stressful experiences, as well as the amount and severity of trauma you've gone through in your life.
Inherited mental health risks, such as a family history of anxiety and depression.
Inherited features of your personality — often called your temperament.
The way your brain regulates the chemicals and hormones your body releases in response to stress.
Risk Factors for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD):
People of all ages can have post-traumatic stress disorder. But you may be more likely to develop PTSD after a traumatic event if you:
Have severe or long-lasting traumatic experiences.
Were physically injured during the traumatic event.
Have been exposed to other trauma earlier in life, such as childhood abuse.
Have a job that exposes you to traumatic events, such as being in the military or being a first responder.
Have other mental health problems, such as anxiety or depression.
Drink too much or misuse drugs.
Do not have a good support system of family and friends.
Have blood relatives with mental health problems, including PTSD or depression.
Complications for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD):
Post-traumatic stress disorder can disrupt your whole life — your education, job, how well you get along with others, physical health and enjoyment of everyday activities. Having PTSD also may raise your risk of other mental health problems, such as:
Depression and anxiety disorders.
Issues with drugs or alcohol use.
Thinking about and attempting suicide.
Preventions for Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
After surviving a traumatic event, many people have PTSD-like symptoms at first, such as not being able to stop thinking about what's happened. Fear, anxiety, anger, depression and guilt are all common reactions to trauma. But most people exposed to trauma don't go on to develop PTSD.
Getting timely help and support may prevent usual stress reactions from getting worse and leading to PTSD. This may mean turning to family and friends who will listen and offer comfort. It also may mean seeking out a mental health professional for a brief course of therapy. Some people also may find it helpful to turn to their faith communities.
Support from others also may prevent you from turning to unhealthy coping methods, such as misusing alcohol or drugs.
Condition name:Post-vasectomy pain syndrome
Overview of Post-vasectomy pain syndrome:
Vasectomy is a minor procedure that blocks the supply of sperm to the semen. It is a common form of male birth control that is done by cutting and sealing the tubes that carry sperm. The sperm, which can no longer reach the semen, are absorbed by the body.
Vasectomy has a low risk of problems, but some men develop post-vasectomy pain syndrome (PVPS). PVPS involves chronic pain in one or both testicles that is still present three months after the procedure. Pain can range from a rare, dull ache to sharp, constant pain that can interfere with daily life. For some men, the pain is severe enough to seek treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome :
Having some discomfort after vasectomy is common, but men with PVPS have pain that never seems to get better after the procedure.
Signs and symptoms of PVPS may include:
Pain and tenderness in the scrotum
Pressure or pain after ejaculation
Dull ache in one or both testicles
Pain and tenderness at the site of the vasectomy
Swelling of the small, C-shaped tube behind the testicle where sperm are stored (epididymis)
Pain with sex
Causes for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome :
The causes of PVPS are not well understood. They may include:
Infection. Inflammation can damage the scrotum, epididymis or other structures along the cord that carries blood vessels and nerves to the testicle (spermatic cord).
Nerve compression. A narrowing of nerves to the testicle may cause symptoms of PVPS.
Back pressure. Sperm that are unable to travel through the tube that carries sperm from each testicle and is cut during vasectomy (vas deferens) may cause back pressure.
Scar tissue. Scar tissue (adhesions) may form and cause pain.
Risk Factors for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome:
There are no known risk factors for developing PVPS. It is not associated with any specific age group, socioeconomic status, environmental factors or type of vasectomy procedure.
Complications for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome:
If left untreated, severe pain may cause significant emotional and psychological distress for men with PVPS. Ongoing pain can affect quality of life for men with PVPS.
Men may be unable to participate in normal physical activity and have trouble working at their jobs. Pain may also result in men avoiding sex.
There are no preventive measures available for Post-vasectomy pain syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pouchitis
Overview of Pouchitis:
Pouchitis is swelling and irritation, called inflammation, in the lining of a pouch made during surgery to remove the colon. The pouch is made to treat a bowel disease called ulcerative colitis and some other diseases.
Many people with ulcerative colitis need to have their colons taken out. Surgeons use a procedure called ileoanal anastomosis (J-pouch) surgery to connect the bowel again after taking out the colon.
In J-pouch surgery, surgeons use the end of the small intestine, called the ileum, to make a pouch shaped like the letter J. Surgeons attach the pouch inside the body to the area just above the anus. The pouch holds stool before it leaves the body.
Pouchitis is a complication of J-pouch surgery. It happens in nearly one-half of the people who have the procedure.
There are no home remedies available for Pouchitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pouchitis :
Symptoms of pouchitis can include diarrhea, belly pain, joint pain, cramps and fever. Other symptoms include passing stool more often, stool leakage at night, trouble controlling stool passage and a strong urge to pass stool.
Causes for Pouchitis :
The cause of pouchitis is unknown. The condition appears to be due to an interaction between bacteria in the pouch and an underlying issue with the immune system.
Risk Factors for Pouchitis:
Some factors that can increase the risk of developing pouchitis include:
Having inflammatory bowel disease, also called IBD. Pouchitis happens more often in people who have underlying IBD, such as ulcerative colitis.
Using nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, also called NSAIDs. Taking NSAIDS, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), can contribute to the development of pouchitis.
Having radiation therapy. Radiation therapy in the pelvic area increases the risk of getting pouchitis.
There are no Complications available for Pouchitis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pouchitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Prader-Willi syndrome
Overview of Prader-Willi syndrome:
Prader-Willi (PRAH-dur VIL-e) syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that results in a number of physical, mental and behavioral problems. A key feature of Prader-Willi syndrome is a constant sense of hunger that usually begins at about 2 years of age.
People with Prader-Willi syndrome want to eat constantly because they never feel full (hyperphagia), and they usually have trouble controlling their weight. Many complications of Prader-Willi syndrome are due to obesity.
Best managed by a team approach, various specialists can work with you to manage symptoms of this complex disorder, reduce the risk of developing complications and improve the quality of life for your loved one with Prader-Willi syndrome.
Home Remedies for Prader-Willi syndrome:
Tips to help you take care of your loved one with Prader-Willi syndrome include the following:
Learn about Prader-Willi syndrome. Managing hormone levels and weight can improve development and behavior and prevent complications. Work with your health care team to develop a plan of care for managing symptoms and addressing issues.
Stick to a strict meal plan. Eating a low-calorie diet is essential to keep your child from becoming overweight. Structure mealtime and the type of food to help develop routines and to help your child understand expectations. Use small dishes for serving meals. To help prevent binging, avoid buying high-calorie snacks. Store food out of your child's reach. Lock pantries, refrigerators and cupboards.
Encourage regular daily activity. Increasing physical activity and exercise can help manage weight and improve physical functioning.
Set limits. Create a firm schedule and set expectations for managing behavior. If needed, talk to your health care team about ways to address problems.
Schedule regular medical care. Talk with your doctor about a regular schedule of health appointments and tests to check for problems or complications related to Prader-Willi syndrome.
Symptoms for Prader-Willi syndrome :
Signs and symptoms of Prader-Willi syndrome can vary among individuals. Symptoms may slowly change over time from childhood to adulthood.
Causes for Prader-Willi syndrome :
Prader-Willi syndrome is a genetic disorder, a condition caused by an error in one or more genes. Although the exact mechanisms responsible for Prader-Willi syndrome haven't been identified, the problem lies in the genes located in a particular region of chromosome 15.
With the exception of genes related to sex characteristics, all genes come in pairs — one copy inherited from your father (paternal gene) and one copy inherited from your mother (maternal gene). For most types of genes, if one copy is "active," or expressed, then the other copy also is expressed, although it's normal for some types of genes to act alone.
Prader-Willi syndrome occurs because certain paternal genes that should be expressed are not for one of these reasons:
Paternal genes on chromosome 15 are missing.
The child inherited two copies of chromosome 15 from the mother and no chromosome 15 from the father.
There's some error or defect in paternal genes on chromosome 15.
In Prader-Willi syndrome, a defect on chromosome 15 disrupts the normal functions of a portion of the brain called the hypothalamus, which controls the release of hormones. A hypothalamus that isn't functioning properly can interfere with processes that result in problems with hunger, growth, sexual development, body temperature, mood and sleep.
In most cases, Prader-Willi syndrome is caused by a random genetic error and is not inherited. Determining which genetic defect caused Prader-Willi syndrome can be helpful in genetic counseling.
There are no Risk Factors available for Prader-Willi syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Prader-Willi syndrome in the knowledge basePreventions for Prader-Willi syndrome
If you have a child with Prader-Willi syndrome and would like to have another baby, consider seeking genetic counseling. A genetic counselor may help determine your risk of having another child with Prader-Willi syndrome.
Condition name:Precocious puberty
Overview of Precocious puberty:
Precocious puberty is when children's bodies begin to change into adult bodies too soon. This change is known as puberty. Most of the time, puberty occurs after age 8 in girls and after age 9 in boys. However, Black, Hispanic, and Native American children might naturally reach puberty earlier. Precocious puberty is when puberty begins too early for the child who's going through it.
In puberty, muscles and bones grow quickly. Bodies change shape and size. And the body becomes able to have children.
The cause of precocious puberty often can't be found. Rarely, certain conditions, such as infections, hormone issues, tumors, brain issues or injuries, may cause precocious puberty. Treatment for precocious puberty usually includes medicines to delay puberty.
There are no home remedies available for Precocious puberty in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Precocious puberty :
Precocious puberty symptoms include:
Breast growth and first period in girls.
Testicle and penis growth, facial hair and deeper voice in boys.
Pubic or underarm hair.
Rapid growth.
Acne.
Adult body odor.
Causes for Precocious puberty :
To understand the causes of precocious puberty in some children, it's helpful to know what happens at puberty. The brain starts the process by making a hormone called gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH).
When this hormone reaches the small, bean-shaped gland at the base of the brain, called the pituitary gland, it leads to more estrogen in the ovaries and more testosterone in the testicles. Estrogen makes female sex traits. Testosterone makes male sex traits.
There are two types of precocious puberty: central precocious puberty and peripheral precocious puberty.
Risk Factors for Precocious puberty:
Factors that increase the risk of precocious puberty include:
Being a girl. Girls are more likely than boys are to have precocious puberty.
Being obese. Carrying extra weight increases the risk of precocious puberty.
Complications for Precocious puberty:
Possible complications of precocious puberty include:
Short height. Children with precocious puberty might grow quickly at first and be taller than others their ages. But their bones mature too soon. So these children often stop growing earlier than usual. This can cause them to be shorter than average as adults.
Social and emotional problems. Children who begin puberty long before others of their age might be upset about the changes in their bodies. For example, dealing with early periods can cause distress. This might affect self-esteem and raise the risk of depression or using illegal drugs or alcohol.
Preventions for Precocious puberty
No one can avoid some of the risk factors for precocious puberty, such as sex and race. But there are things that can lower children's chances of precocious puberty, including:
Keep anything that contains estrogen or testosterone away from children. These might include prescription medicines for adults or diet supplements.
Encourage children to stay at a healthy weight.
Condition name:Prediabetes
Overview of Prediabetes:
Prediabetes means you have a higher than normal blood sugar level. It's not high enough to be considered type 2 diabetes yet. But without lifestyle changes, adults and children with prediabetes are at high risk to develop type 2 diabetes.
If you have prediabetes, the long-term damage of diabetes — especially to your heart, blood vessels and kidneys — may already be starting. There's good news, however. Progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes isn't inevitable.
Eating healthy foods, making physical activity part of your daily routine and staying at a healthy weight can help bring your blood sugar level back to normal. The same lifestyle changes that can help prevent type 2 diabetes in adults might also help bring children's blood sugar levels back to normal.
There are no home remedies available for Prediabetes in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Prediabetes :
Prediabetes doesn't usually have any signs or symptoms.
One possible sign of prediabetes is darkened skin on certain parts of the body. Affected areas can include the neck, armpits and groin.
Classic signs and symptoms that suggest you've moved from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes include:
Increased thirst
Frequent urination
Increased hunger
Fatigue
Blurred vision
Numbness or tingling in the feet or hands
Frequent infections
Slow-healing sores
Unintended weight loss
Causes for Prediabetes :
The exact cause of prediabetes is unknown. But family history and genetics appear to play an important role. What is clear is that people with prediabetes don't process sugar (glucose) properly anymore.
Most of the glucose in your body comes from the food you eat. When food is digested, sugar enters your bloodstream. Insulin allows sugar to enter your cells — and lowers the amount of sugar in your blood.
Insulin is produced by a gland located behind the stomach called the pancreas. Your pancreas sends insulin to your blood when you eat. When your blood sugar level starts to drop, the pancreas slows down the secretion of insulin into the blood.
When you have prediabetes, this process doesn't work as well. As a result, instead of fueling your cells, sugar builds up in your bloodstream. This can happen because:
Your pancreas may not make enough insulin
Your cells become resistant to insulin and don't allow as much sugar in
Risk Factors for Prediabetes:
The same factors that increase the odds of getting type 2 diabetes also increase the risk of prediabetes. These factors include:
Weight. Being overweight is a primary risk factor for prediabetes. The more fatty tissue you have — especially inside and between the muscle and skin around your abdomen — the more resistant your cells become to insulin.
Waist size. A large waist size can indicate insulin resistance. The risk of insulin resistance goes up for men with waists larger than 40 inches and for women with waists larger than 35 inches.
Diet. Eating red meat and processed meat, and drinking sugar-sweetened beverages, is associated with a higher risk of prediabetes.
Inactivity. The less active you are, the greater your risk of prediabetes.
Age. Although diabetes can develop at any age, the risk of prediabetes increases after age 35.
Family history. Your risk of prediabetes increases if you have a parent or sibling with type 2 diabetes.
Race or ethnicity. Although it's unclear why, certain people — including Black, Hispanic, American Indian and Asian American people — are more likely to develop prediabetes.
Gestational diabetes. If you had diabetes while pregnant (gestational diabetes), you and your child are at higher risk of developing prediabetes.
Polycystic ovary syndrome. Women with this common condition — characterized by irregular menstrual periods, excess hair growth and obesity — have a higher risk of prediabetes.
Sleep. People with obstructive sleep apnea — a condition that disrupts sleep repeatedly — have an increased risk of insulin resistance. People who are overweight or obese have a higher risk of developing obstructive sleep apnea.
Tobacco smoke. Smoking may increase insulin resistance and can increase the risk of type 2 diabetes in people with prediabetes. Smoking also increases your risk of complications from diabetes.
Other conditions associated with an increased risk of prediabetes include:
High blood pressure
Low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, the "good" cholesterol
High levels of triglycerides — a type of fat in your blood
Complications for Prediabetes:
Prediabetes has been linked with long-term damage, including to your heart, blood vessels and kidneys, even if you haven't progressed to type 2 diabetes. Prediabetes is also linked to unrecognized (silent) heart attacks.
Prediabetes can progress to type 2 diabetes, which can lead to:
High blood pressure
High cholesterol
Heart disease
Stroke
Kidney disease
Nerve damage
Fatty liver disease
Eye damage, including loss of vision
Amputations
Preventions for Prediabetes
Healthy lifestyle choices can help you prevent prediabetes and its progression to type 2 diabetes — even if diabetes runs in your family. These include:
Eating healthy foods
Getting active
Losing excess weight
Controlling your blood pressure and cholesterol
Not smoking
Condition name:Premature birth
Overview of Premature birth:
A premature birth means a baby is born too early. The birth takes place before the 37th week of pregnancy. A typical pregnancy lasts about 40 weeks.
Premature babies often have serious health problems, especially when they're born very early. These problems often vary. But the earlier a baby is born, the higher the risk of health challenges.
A newborn can be:
Late preterm, born between 34 and 36 completed weeks of pregnancy.
Moderately preterm, born between 32 and 34 weeks of pregnancy.
Very preterm, born between 28 and 32 weeks of pregnancy.
Extremely preterm, born before 28 weeks of pregnancy.
Most premature births happen in the late preterm stage.
Home Remedies for Premature birth:
The thought of bringing your baby home from the hospital might make you feel relieved, excited and nervous. You can do some things ahead of time to prepare for life at home:
Understand how to care for your baby. Before you leave the hospital, take a course in infant CPR. This can save the lives of babies who stop breathing. Ask your baby's medical team any questions you might have, and take notes.
Make sure you're comfortable caring for your baby. This is very important if you'll need to use health monitors or give your infant medicines, oxygen or other treatments. Ask what symptoms to call your baby's health care provider about, such as breathing or feeding problems.
Discuss feedings. Ask the medical team about your baby's need for extra nutrition. The team might suggest that you use products such as breast milk fortifier supplements or preterm infant formula. Keep in mind that premature babies often eat less and may need to be fed more often than full-term babies. Find out how much and how often your baby should eat.
Limit contact with other people. Premature babies are more likely to get serious illnesses than are other newborns. Try to keep your baby away from crowded places as much as you can. And make sure everyone who comes into contact with your baby washes their hands first. Ask people who are ill to put off their visit until they are well.
Protect your baby from RSV. Premature babies have a higher risk of getting a serious illness called RSV infection. This disease is caused by a virus. It affects the lungs and other organs involved in breathing.
There are a few options to protect premature babies from severe RSV infection. One is an RSV vaccine for pregnant people that helps protect babies from birth through 6 months of age. The other is an antibody product given to the infant. This product is called nirsevimab (Beyfortus). Rarely, when nirsevimab is not available or a child is not eligible for it, another antibody product called palivizumab may be given.
Follow a suggested schedule for checkups. Discuss your baby's need for future health checkups with your baby's care provider and any specialists. At first, your baby may need to see a primary care provider every week or two. That way the baby's growth, health needs and care can be watched closely.
Get your baby vaccinated. Vaccines help protect people from dangerous diseases. It's suggested that vaccines be given to premature babies who are in stable health based on their age. Your baby's care team may talk to you about a schedule for when your baby should receive each vaccine. Delays in this schedule are common. Work with your baby's care provider to make sure your baby gets every vaccine on the schedule.
Also make sure that other family members in your home are up to date on their vaccines, including shots for the flu and COVID-19. Family members and adult caregivers also should check with their health care providers to find out if they're up to date on their pertussis vaccine for whooping cough. If you're pregnant, make sure you're up to date on this vaccine too.
Note any delays in development. Over the coming months, your baby's care provider may watch for any signs that the baby is taking longer than usual to reach key milestones. Babies who are at risk of such delays or disabilities may need more tests. You may be referred to services and support systems that can help, called early intervention services. The rules that determine who gets to use these services vary based on where you live.
Symptoms for Premature birth :
Your baby may have very mild symptoms of premature birth or more-serious health problems.
Some signs of being born too early include:
Small size, with a head that's large compared with the body.
Features that are sharper and less rounded than a full-term baby's features due to a lack of cells that store fat.
Fine hair that covers much of the body.
Low body temperature, mainly right after birth in the delivery room.
Trouble breathing.
Feeding problems.
The following tables show the median birth weight, length and head circumference of premature babies at different gestational ages for each sex.
There are no Causes available for Premature birth in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Premature birth:
Often, the exact cause of premature birth isn't clear. But certain things can raise the risk.
Some risk factors linked to past and present pregnancies include:
Pregnancy with twins, triplets or other multiples.
A span of less than six months between pregnancies. It's ideal to wait 18 to 24 months between pregnancies.
Treatments to help you get pregnant, called assisted reproduction, including in vitro fertilization.
More than one miscarriage or abortion.
A previous premature birth.
Some health problems can raise the risk of premature birth, such as:
Problems with the uterus, cervix or placenta.
Some infections, mainly those of the amniotic fluid and lower genital tract.
Ongoing health problems such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
Injuries or trauma to the body.
Lifestyle choices also can raise the risk of a preterm pregnancy, such as:
Smoking cigarettes, taking illicit drugs or drinking alcohol often or heavily while pregnant.
Being underweight or overweight before pregnancy.
Becoming pregnant before the age of 17 or after 35.
Going through stressful life events, such as the death of a loved one or domestic violence.
For unknown reasons, Black and Native people in the United States are more likely to have premature births than are women of other races. But premature birth can happen to anyone. In fact, many preterm births have no known risk factors.
Complications for Premature birth:
Not all premature babies have health complications. But being born too early can cause short-term and long-term medical problems. In general, the earlier a baby is born, the higher the risk of complications. Birth weight plays a key role too.
Some problems may be clear at birth. Others may not show up until later.
Preventions for Premature birth
The exact cause of preterm birth is often unknown. But some things can be done to help lower the risk of preterm birth, including:
Taking progesterone supplements. Progesterone is a hormone that plays a role in pregnancy. A lab-made version of it may be able to lower the risk of preterm birth if you've had a premature baby before. It also may lower the risk of preterm birth if you have a short cervix. The cervix is the lower end of the uterus, which opens during labor so a baby can be born.
Cervical cerclage. This is a surgery that's done during pregnancy. Your provider may suggest it if you have a short cervix and you've had a preterm birth before.
During this procedure, the cervix is stitched closed with a strong suture. This may give the uterus extra support. The suture is removed when it's time to have the baby. Ask your provider if you need to stay away from vigorous activity during the rest of your pregnancy.
One thing that doesn't help prevent preterm birth is staying in bed. Bed rest can raise the risk of blood clots, weaker bones and less muscle strength. It might even make preterm birth more likely.
Condition name:Premature ejaculation
Overview of Premature ejaculation:
Premature ejaculation occurs in men when semen leave the body (ejaculate) sooner than wanted during sex. Premature ejaculation is a common sexual complaint. As many as 1 out of 3 people say they have it at some time.
Premature ejaculation isn't cause for concern if it doesn't happen often. But you might be diagnosed with premature ejaculation if you:
Always or nearly always ejaculate within 1 to 3 minutes of penetration
Are not able to delay ejaculation during sex all or nearly all the time
Feel distressed and frustrated, and tend to avoid sexual intimacy as a result
Premature ejaculation is a treatable condition. Medications, counseling and techniques that delay ejaculation can help improve sex for you and your partner.
There are no home remedies available for Premature ejaculation in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Premature ejaculation :
The main symptom of premature ejaculation is not being able to delay ejaculation for more than three minutes after penetration. But it might occur in all sexual situations, even during masturbation.
Premature ejaculation can be classified as:
Lifelong. Lifelong premature ejaculation occurs all or nearly all the time beginning with the first sexual encounter.
Acquired. Acquired premature ejaculation develops after having previous sexual experiences without problems with ejaculation.
Many people feel that they have symptoms of premature ejaculation, but the symptoms don't meet the criteria for a diagnosis. It's typical to experience early ejaculation at times.
Causes for Premature ejaculation :
The exact cause of premature ejaculation isn't known. It was once thought to be only psychological. But health care providers now know that premature ejaculation involves a complex interaction of psychological and biological factors.
Risk Factors for Premature ejaculation:
Various factors can increase the risk of premature ejaculation. They may include:
Erectile dysfunction. You might be at increased risk of premature ejaculation if you have trouble getting or keeping an erection. Fear of losing an erection might cause you to hurry through sex. This may happen whether you're aware of it or not.
Stress. Emotional or mental strain in any area of life can play a role in premature ejaculation. Stress can limit the ability to relax and focus during sex.
Complications for Premature ejaculation:
Premature ejaculation can cause issues in your personal life. They might include:
Stress and relationship problems. A common complication of premature ejaculation is relationship stress.
Fertility problems. Premature ejaculation can sometimes make it hard for a partner to get pregnant. This may happen if ejaculation doesn't occur in the vagina.
There are no preventive measures available for Premature ejaculation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Presbyopia
Overview of Presbyopia:
Presbyopia is the gradual loss of your eyes' ability to focus on nearby objects. It's a natural, often annoying part of aging. Presbyopia usually becomes noticeable in your early to mid-40s and continues to worsen until around age 65.
You may become aware of presbyopia when you start holding books and newspapers at arm's length to be able to read them. A basic eye exam can confirm presbyopia. You can correct the condition with eyeglasses or contact lenses. You might also consider surgery.
Home Remedies for Presbyopia:
You can't prevent presbyopia. You can help protect your eyes and your vision by following these tips:
Have your eyes checked. Do this regularly even if you see well.
Control chronic health conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes and high blood pressure, can affect your vision if you don't receive proper treatment.
Protect your eyes from the sun. Wear glasses or sunglasses that block ultraviolet (UV) radiation. This is especially important if you spend long hours in the sun or are taking a prescription medication that increases your sensitivity to UV radiation.
Prevent eye injuries. Wear protective eyewear when doing certain things, such as playing sports, mowing the lawn, or painting or using other products with toxic fumes. Nonprescription reading glasses generally don't provide safety protection.
Eat healthy foods. Try to eat plenty of fruits, leafy greens and other vegetables. These foods generally contain high levels of antioxidants as well as vitamin A and beta carotene. They're also vital to maintaining healthy vision.
Use the right glasses. The right glasses optimize your vision. Having regular exams will ensure that your eyeglass prescription is correct.
Use good lighting. Turn up or add light for better vision.
See your doctor immediately if you experience any of these symptoms â€” sudden loss of vision in one eye with or without pain, sudden hazy or blurred vision, double vision, or see flashes of light, black spots or halos around lights. Any of these symptoms may signal a serious medical or eye condition.
Symptoms for Presbyopia :
Presbyopia develops gradually. You may first notice these signs and symptoms after age 40:
A tendency to hold reading material farther away to make the letters clearer
Blurred vision at normal reading distance
Eyestrain or headaches after reading or doing close-up work
You may notice these symptoms are worse if you are tired or are in an area with dim lighting.
Causes for Presbyopia :
To form an image, your eye relies on the cornea and the lens to focus the light reflected from objects. The closer the object, the more the lens flexes.
The cornea is the clear, dome-shaped front surface of your eye.
The lens is a clear structure about the size and shape of an M&M's candy.
Both of these structures bend (refract) light entering your eye to focus the image on the retina, located on the inside back wall of your eye.
The lens, unlike the cornea, is somewhat flexible and can change shape with the help of a circular muscle that surrounds it. When you look at something at a distance, the circular muscle relaxes. When you look at something nearby, the muscle constricts, allowing the relatively elastic lens to curve and change its focusing power.
Presbyopia is caused by a hardening of the lens of your eye, which occurs with aging. As your lens becomes less flexible, it can no longer change shape to focus on close-up images. As a result, these images appear out of focus.
Risk Factors for Presbyopia:
Certain factors can make you more likely to develop presbyopia, including:
Age. Age is the greatest risk factor for presbyopia. Almost everyone experiences some degree of presbyopia after age 40.
Other medical conditions. Being farsighted or having certain diseases — such as diabetes, multiple sclerosis or cardiovascular diseases — can increase your risk of premature presbyopia, which is presbyopia in people younger than 40.
Drugs. Certain drugs are associated with premature presbyopic symptoms, including antidepressants, antihistamines and diuretics.
There are no Complications available for Presbyopia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Presbyopia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Prescription drug abuse
Overview of Prescription drug abuse:
Prescription drug abuse is the use of a prescription medicine in a way not intended by the prescriber. Prescription drug abuse, also called prescription drug misuse, includes everything from taking a friend's prescription painkiller for your backache to snorting or injecting ground-up pills to get high. Prescription drug abuse may become ongoing and compulsive, despite the negative consequences.
An increasing problem, prescription drug abuse can affect all age groups, including teens. The prescription drugs most often misused include opioid painkillers, anti-anxiety medicines, sedatives and stimulants.
Early identification of prescription drug abuse and early intervention may prevent the problem from turning into an addiction.
There are no home remedies available for Prescription drug abuse in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Prescription drug abuse :
Signs and symptoms of prescription drug abuse depend on the specific drug. Because of their mind-altering properties, the most misused prescription drugs are:
Opioids used to treat pain, such as medicines containing oxycodone (Oxycontin, Percocet) and those containing hydrocodone (Norco)
Anti-anxiety medicines, sedatives and hypnotics used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders, such as alprazolam (Xanax), diazepam (Valium) and zolpidem (Ambien)
Stimulants used to treat attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and certain sleep disorders, such as methylphenidate (Ritalin, Concerta, others), dextroamphetamine-amphetamine (Adderall XR, Mydayis) and dextroamphetamine (Dexedrine)
Causes for Prescription drug abuse :
Teens and adults abuse prescription drugs for many reasons, such as:
To feel good or get high
To relax or relieve tension
To ease pain
To reduce appetite
To increase alertness
To experiment with mental effects of the substance
To maintain an addiction and prevent withdrawal
To be accepted by peers or to be social
To try to improve concentration and school or work performance
Risk Factors for Prescription drug abuse:
Some people fear that they may become addicted to medicines prescribed for medical conditions, such as painkillers prescribed after surgery. But you can reduce your risk by carefully following your health care provider's instructions on how to take your medicine.
Prescription drug abuse is highest among teens and young adults.
Risk factors for prescription drug misuse include:
Past or present addictions to other substances, including alcohol and tobacco
Family history of substance abuse problems
Certain preexisting mental health conditions
Peer pressure or a social environment where there's drug use
Easier access to prescription drugs, such as having prescription medicines in the home medicine cabinet
Lack of knowledge about prescription drugs and their potential harm
Complications for Prescription drug abuse:
Abusing prescription drugs can cause a number of problems. Prescription drugs can be especially dangerous — and even lead to death — when taken in high doses, when combined with other prescription drugs or certain over-the-counter medicines, or when taken with alcohol or illegal or recreational drugs.
Preventions for Prescription drug abuse
Prescription drug abuse may occur in people who need painkillers, sedatives or stimulants to treat a medical condition. If you're taking a prescription drug that commonly leads to drug misuse, here are ways to reduce your risk:
Make sure you're getting the right medicine. Make sure your health care provider clearly understands your condition and the signs and symptoms. Tell your health care provider about all your prescriptions, as well as over-the-counter medicines, herbs and supplements, and alcohol and other drug use. Ask your doctor whether there's another medicine with ingredients that have less potential for addiction.
Check in with your health care provider. Talk with your health care provider on a regular basis to make sure that the medicine is working and you're taking the right dose.
Follow directions carefully. Use your medicine the way it was prescribed. Don't stop or change the dose of a drug on your own if it doesn't seem to be working without talking to your health care provider. For example, if you're taking a pain medicine that isn't adequately controlling your pain, don't take more.
Know what your medicine does. Ask your health care provider or pharmacist about the effects of your medicine, so you know what to expect. Also check if other drugs, over-the-counter products or alcohol should be avoided when taking this medicine.
Never use another person's prescription. Everyone is different. Even if you have a similar medical condition, it may not be the right medicine or dose for you.
Don't order prescriptions online unless they're from a trustworthy pharmacy. Some websites sell counterfeit prescription and over-the-counter drugs that could be dangerous.
Condition name:Preterm labor
Overview of Preterm labor:
Preterm labor occurs when regular contractions result in the opening of your cervix after week 20 and before week 37 of pregnancy.
Preterm labor can result in premature birth. The earlier premature birth happens, the greater the health risks for your baby. Many premature babies (preemies) need special care in the neonatal intensive care unit. Preemies can also have long-term mental and physical disabilities.
The specific cause of preterm labor often isn't clear. Certain risk factors might increase the chance of preterm labor, but preterm labor can also occur in pregnant women with no known risk factors.
Home Remedies for Preterm labor:
Preterm contractions might be Braxton Hicks contractions, which are common and don't necessarily mean that your cervix will begin to open. If you're having contractions that you think might be a symptom of preterm labor, try walking, resting or changing positions. This might stop false labor contractions. If you're in true preterm labor, however, your contractions will continue.
Bed rest to manage preterm labor hasn't been shown to reduce the risk of preterm birth. Bed rest can lead to blood clots, emotional distress and muscle weakness.
Symptoms for Preterm labor :
Signs and symptoms of preterm labor include:
Regular or frequent sensations of abdominal tightening (contractions)
Constant low, dull backache
A sensation of pelvic or lower abdominal pressure
Mild abdominal cramps
Vaginal spotting or light bleeding
Preterm rupture of membranes — in a gush or a continuous trickle of fluid after the membrane around the baby breaks or tears
A change in type of vaginal discharge — watery, mucus-like or bloody
There are no Causes available for Preterm labor in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Preterm labor:
Preterm labor can affect any pregnancy. Many factors have been associated with an increased risk of preterm labor, however, including:
Previous preterm labor or premature birth, particularly in the most recent pregnancy or in more than one previous pregnancy
Pregnancy with twins, triplets or other multiples
Shortened cervix
Problems with the uterus or placenta
Smoking cigarettes or using illicit drugs
Certain infections, particularly of the amniotic fluid and lower genital tract
Some chronic conditions, such as high blood pressure, diabetes, autoimmune disease and depression
Stressful life events, such as the death of a loved one
Too much amniotic fluid (polyhydramnios)
Vaginal bleeding during pregnancy
Presence of a fetal birth defect
An interval of less than 12 months — or of more than 59 months — between pregnancies
Age of mother, both young and older
Black, non-Hispanic race and ethnicity
Complications for Preterm labor:
Complications of preterm labor include delivering a preterm baby. This can pose a number of health concerns for your baby, such as low birth weight, breathing difficulties, underdeveloped organs and vision problems. Children who are born prematurely also have a higher risk of cerebral palsy, learning disabilities and behavioral problems.
Preventions for Preterm labor
You might not be able to prevent preterm labor — but there's much you can do to promote a healthy, full-term pregnancy. For example:
Seek regular prenatal care. Prenatal visits can help your health care provider monitor your health and your baby's health. Mention any signs or symptoms that concern you. If you have a history of preterm labor or develop signs or symptoms of preterm labor, you might need to see your health care provider more often during pregnancy.
Eat a healthy diet. Healthy pregnancy outcomes are generally associated with good nutrition. In addition, some research suggests that a diet high in polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) is associated with a lower risk of premature birth. PUFAs are found in nuts, seeds, fish and seed oils.
Avoid risky substances. If you smoke, quit. Ask your health care provider about a smoking cessation program. Illicit drugs are off-limits, too.
Consider pregnancy spacing. Some research suggests a link between pregnancies spaced less than six months apart, or more than 59 months apart, and an increased risk of premature birth. Consider talking to your health care provider about pregnancy spacing.
Be cautious when using assisted reproductive technology (ART). If you're planning to use ART to get pregnant, consider how many embryos will be transferred. Multiple pregnancies carry a higher risk of preterm labor.
Manage chronic conditions. Certain conditions, such as diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity, increase the risk of preterm labor. Work with your health care provider to keep any chronic conditions under control.
If your health care provider determines that you're at increased risk of preterm labor, he or she might recommend taking additional steps to reduce your risk.
Condition name:Primary biliary cholangitis
Overview of Primary biliary cholangitis:
Primary biliary cholangitis is an autoimmune disease in which the bile ducts are inflamed and slowly destroyed. It previously was called primary biliary cirrhosis.
Bile is a fluid made in the liver. It helps with digestion and absorbing certain vitamins. It also helps the body absorb fats and get rid of cholesterol, toxins and worn-out red blood cells. Ongoing inflammation in the liver can lead to bile duct inflammation and damage known as cholangitis. At times, this can lead to permanent scarring of liver tissue, called cirrhosis. It also can eventually lead to liver failure.
Although it affects both sexes, primary biliary cholangitis mostly affects women. It's considered an autoimmune disease, which means your body's immune system is mistakenly attacking healthy cells and tissue. Researchers think a combination of genetic and environmental factors triggers the disease. It usually develops slowly. At this time, there's no cure for primary biliary cholangitis, but medicines may slow liver damage, especially if treatment begins early.
Home Remedies for Primary biliary cholangitis:
You may feel better if you take good care of your overall health. Here are some things you can do to improve some primary biliary cholangitis symptoms and, possibly, help prevent certain complications:
Choose reduced-sodium foods. Sodium adds to tissue swelling and to the buildup of fluid in your abdomen. Look for low-sodium foods or naturally sodium-free foods.
Avoid eating oysters or other raw shellfish. Such seafood can carry infection-causing bacteria. Infections can be dangerous for people with liver disease.
Exercise most days of the week. Exercise may reduce your risk of bone loss.
Don't smoke. If you don't smoke, don't start. If you currently smoke, talk with a healthcare professional about strategies to help you quit.
Avoid alcohol. Your liver processes the alcohol you drink. The added stress can cause liver damage. Generally, people with primary biliary cholangitis should not drink alcohol.
Check with your healthcare team before starting new medicines or dietary supplements. Because your liver isn't working normally, you'll likely be more sensitive to the effects of medicines and some dietary supplements. Check with your healthcare team before taking anything new.
Symptoms for Primary biliary cholangitis :
More than half of people with primary biliary cholangitis do not have any noticeable symptoms when diagnosed. The disease may be diagnosed when blood tests are done for other reasons, such as routine testing. Symptoms eventually develop over the next 5 to 20 years. Those who do have symptoms at diagnosis typically have poorer outcomes.
Common early symptoms include:
Fatigue.
Itchy skin.
Later signs and symptoms may include:
Yellowing of the skin and eyes, called jaundice.
Dry eyes and mouth.
Pain in the upper right abdomen.
Swelling of the spleen, called splenomegaly.
Bone, muscle or joint pain.
Swollen feet and ankles.
Buildup of fluid in the abdomen due to liver failure, called ascites.
Fatty deposits, called xanthomas, on the skin around the eyes, eyelids or in the creases of the palms, soles, elbows or knees.
Darkening of the skin that's not related to sun exposure, called hyperpigmentation.
Weak and brittle bones, called osteoporosis, which can lead to fractures.
High cholesterol.
Diarrhea that may include greasy stools, called steatorrhea.
Underactive thyroid, called hypothyroidism.
Weight loss.
Causes for Primary biliary cholangitis :
It's not clear what causes primary biliary cholangitis. Many experts consider it an autoimmune disease in which the body turns against its own cells. Researchers believe this autoimmune response may be triggered by environmental and genetic factors.
The liver inflammation seen in primary biliary cholangitis starts when certain types of white blood cells called T cells, also known as T lymphocytes, start to collect in the liver. Usually, these immune cells detect and help defend against germs, such as bacteria and viruses. But in primary biliary cholangitis, they mistakenly destroy the healthy cells that line the small bile ducts in the liver.
Inflammation in the smallest ducts spreads and eventually damages other cells in the liver. As the cells die, they're replaced by scar tissue, also known as fibrosis, that can lead to cirrhosis. Cirrhosis is scarring of liver tissue that makes it difficult for your liver to work properly.
Risk Factors for Primary biliary cholangitis:
The following factors may increase your risk of primary biliary cholangitis:
Sex. Most people with primary biliary cholangitis are women.
Age. It's most likely to occur in people 30 to 60 years old.
Genetics. You're more likely to get the condition if you have a family member who has or had it.
Geography. It's most common in people of northern European descent, but primary biliary cholangitis can affect all ethnicities and races.
Researchers think that genetic factors combined with certain environmental factors trigger primary biliary cholangitis. These environmental factors may include:
Infections, such as a urinary tract infection.
Smoking cigarettes, especially over long periods of time.
Exposure to toxic chemicals, such as in certain work environments.
Complications for Primary biliary cholangitis:
As liver damage worsens, primary biliary cholangitis can cause serious health problems, including:
Liver scarring, called cirrhosis. Cirrhosis makes it difficult for your liver to work and may lead to liver failure. It means the later stage of primary biliary cholangitis. People with primary biliary cholangitis and cirrhosis have a poor medical outlook. They also have a higher risk of other complications.
Increased pressure in the portal vein, called portal hypertension. Blood from your intestine, spleen and pancreas enters your liver through a large blood vessel called the portal vein. When scar tissue from cirrhosis blocks normal blood flow through your liver, blood backs up. This causes increased pressure inside the vein. Also, because blood doesn't flow correctly through your liver, drugs and other toxins aren't filtered properly from your bloodstream.
Enlarged veins, called varices. When blood flow through the portal vein is slowed or blocked, blood may back up into other veins. It usually backs up into those in your stomach and esophagus. Increased pressure may cause delicate veins to break open and bleed. Bleeding in the upper stomach or esophagus is a life-threatening emergency. It requires immediate medical care.
Enlarged spleen, called splenomegaly. Your spleen may become swollen with white blood cells and platelets. This is because your body no longer filters toxins out of the bloodstream as it should.
Gallstones and bile duct stones. If bile cannot flow through the bile ducts, it may harden into stones in the ducts. These stones can cause pain and infection.
Liver cancer. Liver scarring increases your risk of liver cancer. If you have liver scarring, you'll need regular cancer screening.
Weak bones, called osteoporosis. People with primary biliary cholangitis have an increased risk of weak, brittle bones that may break more easily.
Vitamin deficiencies. Not having enough bile affects your digestive system's ability to absorb fats and the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E and K. Because of this, some people with advanced primary biliary cholangitis may have low levels of these vitamins. Low levels can result in a variety of health problems, including night blindness and bleeding disorders.
High cholesterol. Up to 80% of people with primary biliary cholangitis have high cholesterol.
Decreased mental function, called hepatic encephalopathy. Some people with advanced primary biliary cholangitis and cirrhosis have personality changes. They also may have problems with memory and concentration.
Increased risk of other disease. Primary biliary cholangitis is associated with other disorders, including those that affect the thyroid, skin and joints. It also can be associated with dry eyes and mouth, a disorder called Sjogren's syndrome.
There are no preventive measures available for Primary biliary cholangitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS)
Overview of Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS):
Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) is a type of motor neuron disease. A motor neuron disease affects the nerve cells in the brain that control movement. In PLS, the breakdown of nerve cells causes weakness in the muscles that control the legs, arms and tongue.
Symptoms typically begin with balance trouble. People with PLS may move slowly and are clumsy. Over time, symptoms evolve to include having trouble with their hands and arms, followed by problems with chewing, swallowing and speaking. Less commonly, the condition may begin with problems with speaking and swallowing.
This rare condition can develop at any age, but it usually occurs between ages 40 and 60. PLS is more common in men than in women. Rarely, PLS can begin in early childhood. This subtype is known as juvenile primary lateral sclerosis. Juvenile PLS is caused by a change in a gene that's passed from both parents to a child.
PLS is often mistaken for another, more common motor neuron disease called amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). While likely related to ALS, PLS gets worse more slowly than ALS. In most people, PLS isn't fatal.
There are no home remedies available for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) :
Symptoms of primary lateral sclerosis usually take years to develop and get worse. Symptoms generally begin in the legs. Rarely, PLS begins with weakness in the tongue or hands. Then weakness gradually moves down the spinal cord to the legs. However, symptoms vary from person to person. Symptoms may include:
Stiffness, weakness and muscle spasms in the legs. This is known as spasticity. Rarely, spasticity starts in only one leg and moves to the arms, hands, tongue and jaw.
Slowed movement.
Tripping, being clumsy and having trouble with balance.
Hand clumsiness.
A hoarse voice, as well as slowed, slurred speech and drooling.
Trouble chewing and swallowing.
Sometimes, frequent, rapid and intense shifts in emotions.
Rarely, breathing problems and bladder problems late in the disease.
Causes for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) :
In primary lateral sclerosis, the nerve cells in the brain that control movement slowly break down and stop working. These nerve cells are called upper motor neurons.
As a result, the nerves are not able to activate the motor neurons in the spinal cord, which control voluntary muscles. This loss causes movement problems. People with PLS may have problems with balance, weakness, slowed movement and clumsiness. PLS also may cause problems with speech and swallowing.
Risk Factors for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS):
There are no established environmental risk factors for primary lateral sclerosis.
Complications for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS):
It can take as long as 20 years for primary lateral sclerosis to progress and become worse. Symptoms vary from person to person. Some people continue to walk, but others eventually need to use wheelchairs or other assistive devices.
For most people, adult-onset PLS isn't thought to shorten life expectancy. But it can gradually affect the quality of your life as more muscles become disabled. Weaker muscles can cause you to fall, which can result in injuries. Problems with chewing and swallowing may result in poor nutrition. Performing activities of daily living, such as bathing and dressing, may become hard.
People with PLS may develop problems with their thinking, known as cognitive decline. Or they may have changes in their behavior. For some people, their symptoms overlap with symptoms of frontotemporal dementia.
There are no preventive measures available for Primary lateral sclerosis (PLS) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Primary ovarian insufficiency
Overview of Primary ovarian insufficiency:
Primary ovarian insufficiency occurs when the ovaries stop working as they should before age 40. When this happens, the ovaries don't make the typical amounts of the hormone estrogen or release eggs regularly. The condition often leads to infertility. Another name for primary ovarian insufficiency is premature ovarian insufficiency. It also used to be called premature ovarian failure, but this term isn't used anymore.
Sometimes, primary ovarian insufficiency is confused with premature menopause. But they aren't the same. People with primary ovarian insufficiency can have irregular or occasional periods for years. They might even get pregnant. But people with premature menopause stop having periods and can't become pregnant.
Treatment can restore estrogen levels in people with primary ovarian insufficiency. This helps prevent some conditions that can happen due to low estrogen, such as heart disease and weak, brittle bones.
Home Remedies for Primary ovarian insufficiency:
Learning that you have primary ovarian insufficiency may be emotionally painful. But with proper treatment and self-care, you can expect to lead a healthy life.
Learn about other ways to have children. If you'd like to add to your family, talk to a health care professional about your options. For instance, you could think about trying in vitro fertilization using donor eggs. Or you could adopt a child.
Talk with your health care team about the best birth control options. A small percentage of people with primary ovarian insufficiency do become pregnant if they have sex without a condom. If you don't want to become pregnant, think about using birth control.
Keep your bones strong. Eat a calcium-rich diet. Do weight-bearing exercises such as walking and strength training exercises for your upper body. And don't smoke. Ask your health care team if you need calcium and vitamin D supplements.
Keep track of your menstrual cycle. If you miss a period while taking hormone therapy that causes you to have a monthly cycle, get a pregnancy test.
Symptoms for Primary ovarian insufficiency :
Symptoms of primary ovarian insufficiency are like those of menopause or low estrogen. They include:
Irregular or missed periods. This symptom might be present for years. It also could develop after a pregnancy or after stopping birth control pills.
Trouble getting pregnant.
Hot flashes and night sweats.
Vaginal dryness.
Anger, depression or anxiety.
Trouble with focus or memory.
Less sexual desire.
Causes for Primary ovarian insufficiency :
Primary ovarian insufficiency may be caused by:
Chromosome changes. Chromosomes are thread-like structures that contain genes. Most often, people assigned female at birth have two X chromosomes in their cells. But some people with primary ovarian insufficiency have one typical X chromosome and one altered X chromosome. This can be a sign of genetic conditions such as mosaic Turner syndrome. Other people with primary ovarian insufficiency have X chromosomes that are fragile and break. This is called fragile X syndrome.
Toxins. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy are common causes of toxin-induced ovarian insufficiency. These treatments can damage genetic material in cells. Other toxins such as cigarette smoke, chemicals, pesticides and viruses might speed up ovarian insufficiency.
An immune system response to ovarian tissue. This also is called autoimmune disease. In this rare form, the immune system makes protective proteins that attack ovary tissue by mistake. This harms sacs in the ovaries that each contain an egg, called follicles. It also damages the egg. What triggers the immune response is unclear. But being exposed to a virus may play a role.
Unknown factors. Most often, the cause of primary ovarian insufficiency isn't clear. You might hear this called an idiopathic cause. Your health care professional may recommend more testing to try to find the cause.
Risk Factors for Primary ovarian insufficiency:
Factors that raise the risk of primary ovarian insufficiency include:
Age. The risk goes up between ages 35 and 40. Primary ovarian insufficiency is rare before age 30. But younger people and even teens can get it.
Family history. Having a family history of primary ovarian insufficiency raises the risk of getting this condition.
Ovarian surgery. Surgeries that involve the ovaries raise the risk of primary ovarian insufficiency.
Complications for Primary ovarian insufficiency:
Primary ovarian insufficiency can lead to other health conditions, including the following:
Infertility. Not being able to get pregnant can be a complication of primary ovarian insufficiency. Rarely, pregnancy is possible until the body's supply of eggs runs out.
Osteoporosis. This condition causes bones to become weak, brittle and more likely to break. Women with low levels of the hormone estrogen have a higher risk of getting osteoporosis. That's because estrogen helps keep bones strong.
Depression or anxiety. Some people with primary ovarian insufficiency become depressed or anxious. This can be due to the risk of infertility and other conditions that arise from low estrogen levels.
Heart or blood vessel disease. Early loss of estrogen might raise the risk of heart conditions or stroke.
Dementia. This is the term for a group of symptoms that affect memory, thinking and social skills. The dementia risk may be linked with getting both ovaries removed and not receiving estrogen therapy afterward in people under age 43.
Parkinson's disease. This long-term condition affects the nervous system, which includes the brain and spinal cord. It also affects parts of the body controlled by nerves. The higher risk of Parkinson's disease also may be linked with surgery to remove the ovaries.
Treatment for primary ovarian insufficiency helps prevent these other health conditions.
There are no preventive measures available for Primary ovarian insufficiency in the knowledge baseCondition name:Primary progressive aphasia
Overview of Primary progressive aphasia:
Primary progressive aphasia (uh-FAY-zhuh) is a rare nervous system syndrome that affects the ability to communicate. People who have it can have trouble expressing their thoughts and understanding or finding words.
Symptoms begin gradually, often before age 65. They get worse over time. People with primary progressive aphasia can lose the ability to speak and write. Eventually they're not able to understand written or spoken language.
This condition progresses slowly. People who have primary progressive aphasia may continue caring for themselves and participating in daily activities for several years.
Primary progressive aphasia is a type of frontotemporal dementia. Frontotemporal dementia is a cluster of disorders that results from the degeneration of the frontal or temporal lobes of the brain. These areas include brain tissue involved in speech and language.
There are no home remedies available for Primary progressive aphasia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Primary progressive aphasia :
Primary progressive aphasia symptoms vary based on which part of the brain's language areas are involved. The condition has three types. Each type causes different symptoms. Symptoms develop over time and gradually get worse.
Causes for Primary progressive aphasia :
Primary progressive aphasia is caused by a shrinking of certain areas of the brain, known as lobes. In this case, the frontal, temporal or parietal lobes are affected. When areas of the brain shrink, it's called atrophy. The atrophy caused by primary progressive aphasia mainly occurs on the left side of the brain. The areas affected are responsible for speech and language.
Atrophy is associated with the presence of certain proteins in the brain. The proteins may reduce brain activity or function.
Risk Factors for Primary progressive aphasia:
Risk factors for primary progressive aphasia include:
Learning disabilities. People who had a childhood learning disability such as dyslexia might be at somewhat higher risk of primary progressive aphasia.
Certain gene changes. Rare gene changes have been linked to primary progressive aphasia. If other members of your family have had it, you might be more likely to develop it.
Complications for Primary progressive aphasia:
People with primary progressive aphasia eventually lose the ability to speak and write. This may take anywhere from 3 to 15 years. They also have trouble understanding written and spoken language. Some people are not able to form sounds to speak, even when they still have the ability to write and comprehend language. This is called apraxia of speech.
As the disease progresses, other mental skills such as memory, planning and organizing can be affected. Some people develop other symptoms such as problems with movement, balance and swallowing. With these complications, people with the disease eventually will need help with day-to-day care.
People with primary progressive aphasia also can develop depression as the disease progresses. Other problems might include blunted emotions such as not showing concern, poor judgment or inappropriate social behavior.
There are no preventive measures available for Primary progressive aphasia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Primary sclerosing cholangitis
Overview of Primary sclerosing cholangitis:
Primary sclerosing (skluh-ROHS-ing) cholangitis (koh-lan-JIE-tis) is a disease of the bile ducts. Bile ducts carry the digestive liquid bile from your liver to your small intestine. In primary sclerosing cholangitis, inflammation causes scars within the bile ducts. These scars make the ducts hard and narrow and gradually cause serious liver damage. A majority of people with primary sclerosing cholangitis also have inflammatory bowel disease, such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease.
In most people with primary sclerosing cholangitis, the disease progresses slowly. It can eventually lead to liver failure, repeated infections, and tumors of the bile duct or liver. A liver transplant is the only known cure for advanced primary sclerosing cholangitis, but the disease may recur in the transplanted liver in a small number of patients.
Care for primary sclerosing cholangitis focuses on monitoring liver function, managing symptoms and, when possible, doing procedures that temporarily open blocked bile ducts.
Home Remedies for Primary sclerosing cholangitis:
If you've been diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis, take steps to care for your liver, such as:
Don't drink alcohol.
Get vaccinated against hepatitis A and B.
Use care with chemicals at home and at work.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Follow directions on all medications, both prescription and over-the-counter. Make sure your pharmacist and any doctor prescribing for you know that you have a liver disease.
Talk to your doctor about any herbs or supplements you're taking since some can be harmful to your liver.
Symptoms for Primary sclerosing cholangitis :
Primary sclerosing cholangitis is often diagnosed before symptoms appear when a routine blood test or an X-ray taken for an unrelated condition shows liver abnormalities.
Early signs and symptoms often include:
Fatigue
Itching
Yellow eyes and skin (jaundice)
Abdominal pain
Many people diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis before they have symptoms continue to feel generally well for several years. But there's no reliable way to predict how quickly or slowly the disease will progress for any individual.
Signs and symptoms that may appear as the disease progresses include:
Fever
Chills
Night sweats
Enlarged liver
Enlarged spleen
Weight loss
Causes for Primary sclerosing cholangitis :
It's not clear what causes primary sclerosing cholangitis. An immune system reaction to an infection or toxin may trigger the disease in people who are genetically predisposed to it.
A large proportion of people with primary sclerosing cholangitis also have inflammatory bowel disease, an umbrella term that includes ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis and inflammatory bowel disease don't always appear at the same time, though. In some cases, primary sclerosing cholangitis is present for years before inflammatory bowel disease occurs. If primary sclerosing cholangitis is diagnosed, it's important to look for inflammatory bowel disease because there is a greater risk of colon cancer.
Somewhat less often, people being treated for inflammatory bowel disease turn out to have primary sclerosing cholangitis as well. And rarely, people with primary sclerosing cholangitis develop inflammatory bowel disease only after having a liver transplant.
Risk Factors for Primary sclerosing cholangitis:
Factors that may increase the risk of primary sclerosing cholangitis include:
Age. Primary sclerosing cholangitis can occur at any age, but it's most often diagnosed between the ages of 30 and 40.
Sex. Primary sclerosing cholangitis occurs more often in men.
Inflammatory bowel disease. A large proportion of people with primary sclerosing cholangitis also have inflammatory bowel disease.
Geographical location. People with Northern European heritage have a higher risk of primary sclerosing cholangitis.
Complications for Primary sclerosing cholangitis:
Complications of primary sclerosing cholangitis may include:
Liver disease and failure. Chronic inflammation of the bile ducts throughout your liver can lead to tissue scarring (cirrhosis), liver cell death and, eventually, loss of liver function.
Repeated infections. If scarring of the bile ducts slows or stops the flow of bile out of the liver, you may experience frequent infections in the bile ducts. The risk of infection is particularly high after you've had a surgical procedure to expand a badly scarred bile duct or remove a stone blocking a bile duct.
Portal hypertension. Your portal vein is the major route for blood flowing from your digestive system into your liver. Portal hypertension refers to high blood pressure in this vein.
Portal hypertension can cause fluid from the liver to leak into your abdominal cavity (ascites). It can also divert blood from the portal vein to other veins, causing these veins to become swollen (varices). Varices are weak veins and tend to bleed easily, which can be life-threatening.
Thinning bones. People with primary sclerosing cholangitis may experience thinning bones (osteoporosis). Your doctor may recommend a bone density exam to test for osteoporosis every few years. Calcium and vitamin D supplements may be prescribed to help prevent bone loss.
Bile duct cancer. If you have primary sclerosing cholangitis, you have an increased risk of developing cancer in the bile ducts or gallbladder.
Colon cancer. People with primary sclerosing cholangitis associated with inflammatory bowel disease have an increased risk of colon cancer. If you've been diagnosed with primary sclerosing cholangitis, your doctor may recommend testing for inflammatory bowel disease, even if you have no signs or symptoms, since the risk of colon cancer is elevated if you have both diseases.
There are no preventive measures available for Primary sclerosing cholangitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Progeria
Overview of Progeria:
Progeria (pro-JEER-e-uh), also known as Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, is an extremely rare, progressive genetic disorder. It causes children to age rapidly, starting in their first two years of life.
Children with progeria generally appear healthy at birth. During the first year, symptoms such as slowed growth, loss of fat tissue and hair loss begin to appear.
Heart problems or strokes are the eventual cause of death in most children with progeria. The average life expectancy for a child with progeria is about 15 years. Some with the condition may die younger and others may live longer, even to about 20 years.
There's no cure for progeria, but new treatments and research show some promise for managing symptoms and complications.
Home Remedies for Progeria:
Here are some steps you can take at home to help your child:
Make sure your child drinks plenty of water. Loss of water, called dehydration, can be more serious in children with progeria. Dehydration is when your body doesn't have enough water and other fluids to carry out normal functions. Be sure your child drinks plenty of water and other fluids, especially during an illness, with activity or in hot weather.
Provide frequent, small meals. Because nutrition and growth can be an issue for children with progeria, giving your child smaller meals more often may help provide more calories. Add healthy, high-calorie foods and snacks as needed. Talk with your health care provider about nutritional supplements. Visits with a registered dietitian can help.
Provide opportunities for regular physical activity. Check with your child's health care provider to learn which activities are safe and healthy for your child.
Get cushioned shoes or shoe inserts for your child. Loss of body fat in the feet can cause discomfort.
Use sunscreen. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply it every two hours. Apply sunscreen more often if your child is swimming or sweating.
Make sure your child is up to date on childhood vaccinations. A child with progeria isn't at increased risk of infection. But like all children, your child is at risk if exposed to infectious diseases.
Provide learning and social opportunities. Progeria won't affect your child's intellect. Your child can attend school at an age-appropriate level. Some adjustments for size and physical ability may be needed.
Make changes at home to allow independence. You may need to make some changes at home that allow your child to have some independence and to be comfortable. These can include ways to allow your child to reach items such as faucets or light switches. Your child may need clothes with special closures or in special sizes. Extra padding for chairs and beds can increase comfort.
Symptoms for Progeria :
Usually within the first year of life, you'll notice that your child's growth has slowed. But motor development and intelligence are not affected.
Symptoms of this progressive disorder cause a distinctive appearance. They include:
Slowed growth and poor weight gain, with below-average height and weight.
Lack of fat that's stored just beneath the skin.
Head that is large compared with the face.
Small jaw, chin and mouth and thin lips.
Thin, curved nose with a slight hook at the end, which may look like a bird's beak.
Large eyes and eyelids that don't close completely.
Hair loss, including eyelashes and eyebrows.
Thin, spotty and wrinkled skin.
Veins easily seen through the skin.
High-pitched voice.
Premature aging.
Symptoms also include health issues:
Severe progressive heart and blood vessel disease, also known as cardiovascular disease.
Hardening and tightening of skin.
Delayed tooth formation and tooth shape that is not usual.
Some hearing loss.
Loss of fat under the skin and loss of muscle.
Problems with the growth and development of bones.
Joint problems, including stiff joints.
A hip that's forced out of the correct position, known as hip dislocation.
Dental problems.
No significant progression of puberty.
Insulin resistance, which means the body doesn't respond well to insulin made by an organ called the pancreas.
Causes for Progeria :
A change in one gene causes progeria. This gene, known as lamin A (LMNA), makes a protein that's needed to hold the center of a cell, called the nucleus, together. When the LMNA gene has a change, a flawed lamin A protein called progerin is made. Progerin makes cells unstable and appears to lead to progeria's aging process.
The changed gene that causes progeria is rarely passed down in families. In most cases, the rare gene change that causes progeria happens by chance.
Risk Factors for Progeria:
There are no known factors, such as lifestyle or environmental issues, that increase the risk of having progeria or giving birth to a child with progeria. But the age of the father has been described as a possible risk factor. Progeria is extremely rare. If you've had one child with progeria, the chances of having a second child with progeria are slightly higher than the general population but are still low.
If you have a child with progeria, a genetic counselor can give you information about the risk of having other children with progeria.
Complications for Progeria:
Severe hardening of the arteries, known as atherosclerosis, is common in progeria. Arteries are blood vessels that carry nutrients and oxygen from the heart to the rest of the body. Atherosclerosis is a condition in which the walls of the arteries stiffen and thicken. This often limits blood flow. The condition especially affects arteries in the heart and brain.
Most children with progeria die of complications related to atherosclerosis, including:
Problems with blood vessels that supply the heart, resulting in heart attack and congestive heart failure.
Problems with blood vessels that supply the brain, resulting in stroke.
Other health problems frequently linked with aging — such as an increased cancer risk — usually don't develop as part of progeria.
There are no preventive measures available for Progeria in the knowledge baseCondition name:Progressive supranuclear palsy
Overview of Progressive supranuclear palsy:
Progressive supranuclear palsy is a rare brain disease that affects walking, balance, eye movements and swallowing. The disease results from the damage of cells in areas of the brain that control body movement, coordination, thinking and other important functions. Progressive supranuclear palsy also is called Steele-Richardson-Olszewski syndrome.
Progressive supranuclear palsy worsens over time and can lead to dangerous complications, such as pneumonia and trouble swallowing. There's no cure for progressive supranuclear palsy, so treatment focuses on managing the symptoms.
Home Remedies for Progressive supranuclear palsy:
To minimize the effects of progressive supranuclear palsy, you can take certain steps at home:
Use eye drops multiple times a day to help ease dry eyes that can occur as a result of problems with blinking or persistent tearing.
Install grab bars in hallways and bathrooms, to help you avoid falls.
Use a walker that is weighted, to help prevent falling backward.
Remove small area rugs or other items that are hard to see without looking downward.
Don't climb stairs.
Symptoms for Progressive supranuclear palsy :
Symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy include:
A loss of balance while walking. A tendency to fall backward can occur very early in the disease.
An inability to aim your eyes properly. People with progressive supranuclear palsy may not be able to look downward. Or they may experience blurring and double vision. Not being able to focus the eyes can make some people spill food. They also may appear disinterested in conversation because of lack of eye contact.
Additional symptoms of progressive supranuclear palsy vary and may mimic those of Parkinson's disease and dementia. Symptoms get worse over time and may include:
Stiffness, especially of the neck, and awkward movements.
Falling, especially falling backward.
Slow or slurred speech.
Trouble swallowing, which may cause gagging or choking.
Being sensitive to bright light.
Trouble with sleep.
Loss of interest in pleasurable activities.
Impulsive behavior, or laughing or crying for no reason.
Trouble with reasoning, problem-solving and decision-making.
Depression and anxiety.
A surprised or frightened facial expression, resulting from rigid facial muscles.
Dizziness.
Causes for Progressive supranuclear palsy :
The cause of progressive supranuclear palsy isn't known. Its symptoms result from the damage of cells in areas of the brain, especially areas that help you control body movements and thinking.
Researchers have found that the damaged brain cells of people with progressive supranuclear palsy have excess amounts of a protein called tau. Clumps of tau also are found in other brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease.
Rarely, progressive supranuclear palsy occurs within a family. But a genetic link isn't clear. Most people with progressive supranuclear palsy haven't inherited the disorder.
Risk Factors for Progressive supranuclear palsy:
The only proven risk factor for progressive supranuclear palsy is age. The condition typically affects people in their late 60s and 70s. It's virtually unknown in people under the age of 40.
Complications for Progressive supranuclear palsy:
Complications of progressive supranuclear palsy result primarily from slow and difficult muscle movements. These complications may include:
Falling, which could lead to head injuries, fractures and other injuries.
Trouble focusing your eyes, which also can lead to injuries.
Trouble sleeping, which can lead to feeling tired and excessive daytime sleeping.
Not being able to look at bright lights.
Trouble swallowing, which can lead to choking or inhaling food or liquid into the airway, known as aspiration.
Pneumonia, which can be caused by aspiration. Pneumonia is the most common cause of death in people with progressive supranuclear palsy.
Impulsive behaviors. For example, standing up without waiting for assistance, which can lead to falls.
To avoid the hazards of choking, your healthcare professional may recommend a feeding tube. To avoid injuries due to falling, a walker or a wheelchair may be used.
There are no preventive measures available for Progressive supranuclear palsy in the knowledge baseCondition name:Prostate cancer
Overview of Prostate cancer:
Prostate cancer is cancer that occurs in the prostate. The prostate is a small walnut-shaped gland in males that produces the seminal fluid that nourishes and transports sperm.
Prostate cancer is one of the most common types of cancer. Many prostate cancers grow slowly and are confined to the prostate gland, where they may not cause serious harm. However, while some types of prostate cancer grow slowly and may need minimal or even no treatment, other types are aggressive and can spread quickly.
Prostate cancer that's detected early — when it's still confined to the prostate gland — has the best chance for successful treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Prostate cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Prostate cancer :
Prostate cancer may cause no signs or symptoms in its early stages.
Prostate cancer that's more advanced may cause signs and symptoms such as:
Trouble urinating.
Decreased force in the stream of urine.
Blood in the urine.
Blood in the semen.
Bone pain.
Losing weight without trying.
Erectile dysfunction.
Causes for Prostate cancer :
It's not clear what causes prostate cancer.
Doctors know that prostate cancer begins when cells in the prostate develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow and divide more rapidly than normal cells do. The abnormal cells continue living, when other cells would die.
The accumulating abnormal cells form a tumor that can grow to invade nearby tissue. In time, some abnormal cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Prostate cancer:
Factors that can increase your risk of prostate cancer include:
Older age. Your risk of prostate cancer increases as you age. It's most common after age 50.
Race. For reasons not yet determined, Black people have a greater risk of prostate cancer than do people of other races. In Black people, prostate cancer is also more likely to be aggressive or advanced.
Family history. If a blood relative, such as a parent, sibling or child, has been diagnosed with prostate cancer, your risk may be increased. Also, if you have a family history of genes that increase the risk of breast cancer (BRCA1 or BRCA2) or a very strong family history of breast cancer, your risk of prostate cancer may be higher.
Obesity. People who are obese may have a higher risk of prostate cancer compared with people considered to have a healthy weight, though studies have had mixed results. In obese people, the cancer is more likely to be more aggressive and more likely to return after initial treatment.
Complications for Prostate cancer:
Complications of prostate cancer and its treatments include:
Cancer that spreads (metastasizes). Prostate cancer can spread to nearby organs, such as your bladder, or travel through your bloodstream or lymphatic system to your bones or other organs. Prostate cancer that spreads to the bones can cause pain and broken bones. Once prostate cancer has spread to other areas of the body, it may still respond to treatment and may be controlled, but it's unlikely to be cured.
Incontinence. Both prostate cancer and its treatment can cause urinary incontinence. Treatment for incontinence depends on the type you have, how severe it is and the likelihood it will improve over time. Treatment options may include medications, catheters and surgery.
Erectile dysfunction. Erectile dysfunction can result from prostate cancer or its treatment, including surgery, radiation or hormone treatments. Medications, vacuum devices that assist in achieving erection and surgery are available to treat erectile dysfunction.
Preventions for Prostate cancer
You can reduce your risk of prostate cancer if you:
Choose a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. Eat a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Fruits and vegetables contain many vitamins and nutrients that can contribute to your health.
Whether you can prevent prostate cancer through diet has yet to be conclusively proved. But eating a healthy diet with a variety of fruits and vegetables can improve your overall health.
Choose healthy foods over supplements. No studies have shown that supplements play a role in reducing your risk of prostate cancer. Instead, choose foods that are rich in vitamins and minerals so that you can maintain healthy levels of vitamins in your body.
Exercise most days of the week. Exercise improves your overall health, helps you maintain your weight and improves your mood. Try to exercise most days of the week. If you're new to exercise, start slow and work your way up to more exercise time each day.
Maintain a healthy weight. If your current weight is healthy, work to maintain it by choosing a healthy diet and exercising most days of the week. If you need to lose weight, add more exercise and reduce the number of calories you eat each day. Ask your doctor for help creating a plan for healthy weight loss.
Talk to your doctor about increased risk of prostate cancer. If you have a very high risk of prostate cancer, you and your doctor may consider medications or other treatments to reduce the risk. Some studies suggest that taking 5-alpha reductase inhibitors, including finasteride (Propecia, Proscar) and dutasteride (Avodart), may reduce the overall risk of developing prostate cancer. These drugs are used to control prostate gland enlargement and hair loss.
However, some evidence indicates that people taking these medications may have an increased risk of getting a more serious form of prostate cancer (high-grade prostate cancer). If you're concerned about your risk of developing prostate cancer, talk with your doctor.
Condition name:Prostatitis
Overview of Prostatitis:
Prostatitis is a disorder of the prostate gland usually associated with inflammation. Prostatitis often causes painful or difficult urination, as well as pain in the groin, pelvic area or genitals. Bacterial infections cause some but not all cases of prostatitis.
The prostate gland, about the size of a walnut, is located just below the bladder in men. It surrounds the top portion of the tube that drains urine from the bladder (urethra). The prostate and other sex glands produce the fluid that transports sperm during ejaculation (semen).
Home Remedies for Prostatitis:
The following remedies might ease some symptoms of prostatitis:
Soak in a warm bath (sitz bath) or use a heating pad.
Limit or avoid alcohol, caffeine, and spicy or acidic foods, which can irritate your bladder.
Drink plenty of water. This will cause you to urinate more and help flush bacteria from your bladder.
More Information
Prostatitis and sex
Symptoms for Prostatitis :
Signs and symptoms of prostatitis can vary depending on the type of disorder. They may include:
Pain or burning sensation when urinating (dysuria)
Difficulty urinating, such as dribbling or hesitant urination
Frequent urination, particularly at night (nocturia)
Urgent need to urinate
Cloudy urine
Blood in the urine
Pain in the abdomen, groin or lower back
Pain in the area between the scrotum and rectum (perineum)
Pain or discomfort of the penis or testicles
Painful ejaculation
Fever, chills, muscle aches and other flu-like symptoms (with acute bacterial prostatitis)
Causes for Prostatitis :
Causes vary depending on the type of prostatitis.
Acute bacterial prostatitis is usually caused by common strains of bacteria. The infection may have spread from other parts of the urinary or reproductive systems.
Chronic bacterial prostatitis generally has the same cause as acute bacterial infection. It may occur when treatment for an acute infection isn't long enough or fails to kill all the bacteria.
Chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome is not well understood. Research suggests that multiple factors may collectively play a role. These include previous infection, nervous system dysfunction, immune system dysfunction, psychological stress or irregular hormone activity.
Asymptomatic inflammatory prostatitis, which has no known cause, is generally found only during an exam for other medical conditions and is not treated.
Risk Factors for Prostatitis:
Risk factors for prostatitis include:
Young or middle-aged adulthood
Previous prostatitis
Infection of the urinary or reproductive system
HIV infection or AIDS
Use of a tube inserted into the urethra to drain the bladder (urinary catheter)
Diagnostic sampling of prostate tissue (biopsy)
Additional risk factors for chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome may include:
Psychological stress
Nerve damage in the pelvic region due to surgery or trauma
Complications for Prostatitis:
Complications of acute or chronic prostatitis can include:
Bacterial infection of the blood (bacteremia)
Inflammation of the coiled tube attached to the back of the testicle (epididymitis)
Pus-filled cavity in the prostate (prostatic abscess)
Infection that spreads to the upper pelvic bone or lower spine
Complications of chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome may include:
Anxiety or depression
Sexual dysfunction, such as the inability to get and maintain an erection (erectile dysfunction)
Changes in sperm and semen that may cause infertility
There's no direct evidence that prostatitis can lead to prostate cancer. Researchers are investigating whether chronic inflammation of the prostate is a risk factor for cancer.
There are no preventive measures available for Prostatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pseudobulbar affect
Overview of Pseudobulbar affect:
Pseudobulbar affect (PBA) is a condition that's characterized by episodes of sudden uncontrollable and inappropriate laughing or crying. Pseudobulbar affect typically occurs in people with certain neurological conditions or injuries, which might affect the way the brain controls emotion.
If you have pseudobulbar affect you'll experience emotions normally, but you'll sometimes express them in an exaggerated or inappropriate way. As a result, the condition can be embarrassing and disruptive to your daily life.
Pseudobulbar affect often goes undiagnosed or is mistaken for mood disorders. Once diagnosed, however, pseudobulbar affect can be managed with medication.
There are no home remedies available for Pseudobulbar affect in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pseudobulbar affect :
The primary sign of pseudobulbar affect (PBA) is frequent, involuntary and uncontrollable outbursts of crying or laughing that are exaggerated or not connected to your emotional state. Laughter often turns to tears. Your mood will appear normal between episodes, which can occur at any time. Crying appears to be a more common sign of PBA than laughing.
The degree of the emotional response caused by PBA is often striking, with crying or laughing lasting up to several minutes. For example, you might laugh uncontrollably in response to a mildly amusing comment. Or you might laugh or cry in situations that others don't see as funny or sad. These emotional responses typically represent a change from how you would have previously responded.
Because pseudobulbar affect often involves crying, the condition is frequently mistaken for depression. However, PBA episodes tend to be short in duration, while depression causes a persistent feeling of sadness. Also, people with PBA often lack certain features of depression, such as sleep disturbances or a loss of appetite. But depression is common among those who have pseudobulbar affect.
If you think you have PBA, talk to your doctor. If you have a neurological condition, you might already be treated by a doctor who can diagnose PBA. Helpful specialists include neuropsychologists, neurologists and psychiatrists.
It's suspected that many cases of pseudobulbar affect go unreported and undiagnosed due to a lack of awareness about the condition.
Causes for Pseudobulbar affect :
Pseudobulbar affect (PBA) typically occurs in people with neurological conditions or injuries, including:
Stroke
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)
Multiple sclerosis (MS)
Traumatic brain injury
Alzheimer's disease
Parkinson's disease
While further research is needed, the cause of PBA is believed to involve injury to the neurological pathways that regulate the external expression of emotion (affect).
There are no Risk Factors available for Pseudobulbar affect in the knowledge baseComplications for Pseudobulbar affect:
Severe symptoms of pseudobulbar affect (PBA) can cause embarrassment, social isolation, anxiety and depression. The condition might interfere with your ability to work and do daily tasks, especially when you're already coping with a neurological condition.
There are no preventive measures available for Pseudobulbar affect in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pseudogout
Overview of Pseudogout:
Pseudogout (SOO-doe-gout) is a form of arthritis characterized by sudden, painful swelling in one or more of the joints. Episodes can last for days or weeks.
Pseudogout is formally known as calcium pyrophosphate deposition disease or CPPD. But the condition is commonly called pseudogout because of its similarity to gout. In both pseudogout and gout, crystal deposits form within a joint, although the type of crystal differs for each condition.
It isn't clear why crystals form in joints and cause pseudogout, but the risk increases with age. Treatments can help relieve pain and reduce inflammation.
Home Remedies for Pseudogout:
Home treatments may be useful during pseudogout flare-ups. Examples include:
NSAIDs. Over-the-counter NSAIDs, such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve), often are helpful.
Rest the joint. Try not to use the affected joint for a couple of days.
Ice. Cold packs can help reduce the inflammation associated with flare-ups.
Symptoms for Pseudogout :
Pseudogout most commonly affects the knees. Less often, it affects the wrists and ankles. When a pseudogout attack occurs, the affected joints are usually:
Swollen
Warm
Severely painful
Causes for Pseudogout :
Pseudogout has been linked to the presence of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals within the affected joint. These crystals become more numerous as people age, appearing in nearly half the population older than age 85. But most people who have these crystal deposits never develop pseudogout. It's not clear why some people have symptoms and others don't.
Risk Factors for Pseudogout:
Factors that can increase your risk of pseudogout include:
Older age. The risk of developing pseudogout increases with age.
Joint trauma. Trauma to a joint, such as a serious injury or surgery, increases the risk of pseudogout in that joint.
Genetic disorder. In some families, family members have a hereditary tendency to develop pseudogout. These people tend to develop pseudogout at younger ages.
Mineral imbalances. The risk of pseudogout is higher for people who have excessive calcium or iron in their blood or too little magnesium.
Other medical conditions. Pseudogout has also been linked to an underactive thyroid gland or an overactive parathyroid gland.
Complications for Pseudogout:
The crystal deposits associated with pseudogout can also cause joint damage, which can mimic the signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis.
There are no preventive measures available for Pseudogout in the knowledge baseCondition name:Psoriasis
Overview of Psoriasis:
Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes a rash with itchy, scaly patches, most commonly on the knees, elbows, trunk and scalp.
Psoriasis is a common, long-term (chronic) disease with no cure. It can be painful, interfere with sleep and make it hard to concentrate. The condition tends to go through cycles, flaring for a few weeks or months, then subsiding for a while. Common triggers in people with a genetic predisposition to psoriasis include infections, cuts or burns, and certain medications.
Treatments are available to help you manage symptoms. And you can try lifestyle habits and coping strategies to help you live better with psoriasis.
Home Remedies for Psoriasis:
Try these self-care measures to better manage your psoriasis:
Take daily baths. Wash gently rather than scrubbing your skin in the shower or bath. Use lukewarm water and mild soaps that have added oils or fats. It might help to add bath oil, Epsom salts or oatmeal to bathwater and soak for at least 15 minutes.
Keep your skin moist. Apply moisturizer daily. If you're moisturizing after bathing, gently pat dry and apply your preferred product while your skin is still moist. For very dry skin, oils or heavy ointment-based moisturizers may be preferable â€” they stay on the skin longer than creams or lotions do. If moisturizing seems to improve your skin, apply the product more than once a day.
If the air where you live is very dry, use a humidifier to add moisture to the air.
Cover the affected areas overnight. Before going to bed, apply an ointment-based moisturizer to the affected skin and wrap with plastic wrap. When you wake, remove the plastic and wash away scales.
Expose your skin to small amounts of sunlight. Ask your health care provider about the best way to use natural sunlight to treat your skin. A controlled amount of sunlight can improve psoriasis, but too much sun can trigger or worsen outbreaks and increase the risk of skin cancer. Log your time in the sun, and protect skin that isn't affected by psoriasis with a hat, clothing or sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of at least 30.
Avoid scratching. It might help to apply a nonprescription anti-itch cream or ointment containing hydrocortisone or salicylic acid. If you have scalp psoriasis, try a medicated shampoo that contains coal tar. Keep your nails trimmed so that they won't hurt your skin if you do scratch. Wear soft fabrics that don't contribute to itchiness.
Avoid psoriasis triggers. Notice what triggers your psoriasis, and take steps to prevent or avoid it. Infections, injuries to your skin, smoking and intense sun exposure can all worsen psoriasis.
Stay cool. Being too hot can make your skin feel itchy. Wear light clothing if you're outside on hot days. If you have air conditioning, use it on hot days to keep cool. Keep cold packs in your freezer and apply them to itchy spots for a few minutes of relief. You might try storing your moisturizing lotion in the refrigerator to add a cooling effect when you apply it
Strive to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Try practicing other healthy-living habits to help manage psoriasis. These include being active, eating well, limiting or avoiding alcohol consumption, and maintaining a healthy weight.
More Information
Psoriasis care at Mayo Clinic
6 ways to manage itchy skin when you have psoriasis
Ease stress to reduce your psoriasis flares
Show more related information
Symptoms for Psoriasis :
Common signs and symptoms of psoriasis include:
A patchy rash that varies widely in how it looks from person to person, ranging from spots of dandruff-like scaling to major eruptions over much of the body
Rashes that vary in color, tending to be shades of purple with gray scale on brown or Black skin and pink or red with silver scale on white skin
Small scaling spots (commonly seen in children)
Dry, cracked skin that may bleed
Itching, burning or soreness
Cyclic rashes that flare for a few weeks or months and then subside
There are several types of psoriasis, each of which varies in its signs and symptoms:
Plaque psoriasis. The most common type of psoriasis, plaque psoriasis causes dry, itchy, raised skin patches (plaques) covered with scales. There may be few or many. They usually appear on the elbows, knees, lower back and scalp. The patches vary in color, depending on skin color. The affected skin might heal with temporary changes in color (post inflammatory hyperpigmentation), particularly on brown or Black skin.
Nail psoriasis. Psoriasis can affect fingernails and toenails, causing pitting, abnormal nail growth and discoloration. Psoriatic nails might loosen and separate from the nail bed (onycholysis). Severe disease may cause the nail to crumble.
Guttate psoriasis. Guttate psoriasis primarily affects young adults and children. It's usually triggered by a bacterial infection such as strep throat. It's marked by small, drop-shaped, scaling spots on the trunk, arms or legs.
Inverse psoriasis. Inverse psoriasis mainly affects the skin folds of the groin, buttocks and breasts. It causes smooth patches of inflamed skin that worsen with friction and sweating. Fungal infections may trigger this type of psoriasis.
Pustular psoriasis. Pustular psoriasis, a rare type, causes clearly defined pus-filled blisters. It can occur in widespread patches or on small areas of the palms or soles.
Erythrodermic psoriasis. The least common type of psoriasis, erythrodermic psoriasis can cover the entire body with a peeling rash that can itch or burn intensely. It can be short-lived (acute) or long-term (chronic).
Causes for Psoriasis :
Psoriasis is thought to be an immune system problem that causes skin cells to grow faster than usual. In the most common type of psoriasis, known as plaque psoriasis, this rapid turnover of cells results in dry, scaly patches.
The cause of psoriasis isn't fully understood. It's thought to be an immune system problem where infection-fighting cells attack healthy skin cells by mistake. Researchers believe that both genetics and environmental factors play a role. The condition is not contagious.
Risk Factors for Psoriasis:
Anyone can develop psoriasis. About a third of instances begin in childhood. These factors can increase the risk of developing the disease:
Family history. The condition runs in families. Having one parent with psoriasis increases your risk of getting the disease. And having two parents with psoriasis increases your risk even more.
Smoking. Smoking tobacco not only increases the risk of psoriasis but also may increase the severity of the disease.
Complications for Psoriasis:
If you have psoriasis, you're at greater risk of developing other conditions, including:
Psoriatic arthritis, which causes pain, stiffness, and swelling in and around the joints
Temporary skin color changes (post-inflammatory hypopigmentation or hyperpigmentation) where plaques have healed
Eye conditions, such as conjunctivitis, blepharitis and uveitis
Obesity
Type 2 diabetes
High blood pressure
Cardiovascular disease
Other autoimmune diseases, such as celiac disease, sclerosis and the inflammatory bowel disease called Crohn's disease
Mental health conditions, such as low self-esteem and depression
There are no preventive measures available for Psoriasis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pulmonary atresia
Overview of Pulmonary atresia:
Pulmonary atresia (uh-TREE-zhuh) is a heart problem present at birth. That means it is a congenital heart defect. In this condition, the valve that helps move blood from the heart to the lungs doesn't form correctly. The valve is called the pulmonary valve.
Instead of a valve that opens and closes, a solid sheet of tissue forms. So, blood can't travel its usual path to get oxygen from the lungs. Instead, some blood travels to the lungs through other natural passages within the heart and its arteries.
A baby in the womb needs these other passages. But they usually close soon after birth.
Pulmonary atresia is a life-threatening condition that needs emergency treatment. Treatment includes surgery to repair the heart and medicines to help the heart work better.
Home Remedies for Pulmonary atresia:
Here are some tips for caring for someone with pulmonary atresia after coming home from the hospital:
Go to scheduled health checkups. A person born with pulmonary atresia needs regular checkups, even as an adult. A doctor trained in congenital heart diseases, called a congenital cardiologist, often provides care. Get recommended vaccines, including yearly flu vaccines.
Ask about exercise and activity. Some children with a congenital heart defect may need to limit exercise or sports activities. However, many others with a congenital heart defect can participate in such activities. Your child's care team can tell you which sports and types of exercise are safe for your child.
Practice good oral hygiene. Brushing and flossing teeth and getting regular dental checkups can help prevent infection.
Ask about preventive antibiotics. Sometimes, a congenital heart defect can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures to prevent infection, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve.
Symptoms for Pulmonary atresia :
Symptoms of pulmonary atresia may be seen soon after birth. They can include:
Blue or gray skin, lips or fingernails due to low oxygen levels. Depending on the skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Fast breathing or shortness of breath.
Tiring easily.
Not feeding well.
Causes for Pulmonary atresia :
The cause of pulmonary atresia is not clear. During the first six weeks of pregnancy, the baby's heart begins to form and starts beating. The major blood vessels that run to and from the heart also begin to develop during this critical time. It's at this point in a baby's development that a congenital heart defect such as pulmonary atresia may begin to develop.
To understand how pulmonary atresia occurs, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
Risk Factors for Pulmonary atresia:
Pulmonary atresia happens as the baby's heart is forming during pregnancy. Certain health conditions or illicit drug use during pregnancy may increase a baby's risk of pulmonary atresia or other congenital heart defects. Risk factors include:
Obesity.
Alcohol or tobacco use.
Diabetes.
Use of some types of medicines during pregnancy, such as certain acne and blood pressure medicines.
Some types of congenital heart defects occur in families. This means they are inherited. If you or someone in your family was born with a heart problem, including pulmonary atresia, ask your care team is genetic screening is right for you. Screening can help show the risk of certain congenital heart defects in future children.
Complications for Pulmonary atresia:
Without treatment, pulmonary atresia most often leads to death. After surgery for pulmonary atresia, babies need regular health checkups throughout their lives to watch for complications.
Complications of pulmonary atresia may include:
Bacterial infection of the inner lining of the heart and valves, called infectious endocarditis.
Irregular heartbeats, called arrhythmias.
Weakening of heart function.
Preventions for Pulmonary atresia
It might not be possible to prevent pulmonary atresia. But getting good prenatal care is important. Some things you can do before or during pregnancy might help lower your baby's risk of congenital heart defects. They include:
Control other health conditions. If you have diabetes, keep your blood sugar in check. For other conditions that need medicines, talk to your healthcare professional about taking these medicines while pregnant.
Don't smoke and don't be around others who smoke. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of a congenital heart defect in the baby.
Aim for a healthy weight. Obesity increases the risk of having a baby with a congenital heart defect.
Get recommended vaccinations. Having rubella, also called German measles, during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Condition name:Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum
Overview of Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pulmonary atresia with intact ventricular septum in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect
Overview of Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pulmonary atresia with ventricular septal defect in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pulmonary embolism
Overview of Pulmonary embolism:
A pulmonary embolism is a blood clot that blocks and stops blood flow to an artery in the lung. In most cases, the blood clot starts in a deep vein in the leg and travels to the lung. Rarely, the clot forms in a vein in another part of the body. When a blood clot forms in one or more of the deep veins in the body, it's called a deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
Because one or more clots block blood flow to the lungs, pulmonary embolism can be life-threatening. However, prompt treatment greatly reduces the risk of death. Taking measures to prevent blood clots in your legs will help protect you against pulmonary embolism.
There are no home remedies available for Pulmonary embolism in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pulmonary embolism :
Pulmonary embolism symptoms can vary greatly, depending on how much of your lung is involved, the size of the clots, and whether you have underlying lung or heart disease.
Common symptoms include:
Shortness of breath. This symptom usually appears suddenly. Trouble catching your breath happens even when resting and gets worse with physical activity.
Chest pain. You may feel like you're having a heart attack. The pain is often sharp and felt when you breathe in deeply. The pain can stop you from being able to take a deep breath. You also may feel it when you cough, bend or lean over.
Fainting. You may pass out if your heart rate or blood pressure drops suddenly. This is called syncope.
Other symptoms that can occur with pulmonary embolism include:
A cough that may include bloody or blood-streaked mucus
Rapid or irregular heartbeat
Lightheadedness or dizziness
Excessive sweating
Fever
Leg pain or swelling, or both, usually in the back of the lower leg
Clammy or discolored skin, called cyanosis
Causes for Pulmonary embolism :
A pulmonary embolism occurs when a clump of material, most often a blood clot, gets stuck in an artery in the lungs, blocking the flow of blood. Blood clots most commonly come from the deep veins of your legs, a condition known as deep vein thrombosis.
In many cases, multiple clots are involved. The portions of lung served by each blocked artery can't get blood and may die. This is known as a pulmonary infarction. This makes it more difficult for your lungs to provide oxygen to the rest of your body.
Occasionally, blockages in the blood vessels are caused by substances other than blood clots, such as:
Fat from the inside of a broken long bone
Part of a tumor
Air bubbles
Risk Factors for Pulmonary embolism:
Although anyone can develop blood clots that result in a pulmonary embolism, certain factors can increase your risk.
Complications for Pulmonary embolism:
A pulmonary embolism can be life-threatening. About one-third of people with an undiagnosed and untreated pulmonary embolism don't survive. When the condition is diagnosed and treated promptly, however, that number drops dramatically.
Pulmonary embolisms also can lead to pulmonary hypertension, a condition in which the blood pressure in the lungs and in the right side of the heart is too high. When you have blockages in the arteries inside your lungs, your heart must work harder to push blood through those vessels. This increases blood pressure and eventually weakens your heart.
In rare cases, small clots called emboli remain in the lungs and scarring develops in the pulmonary arteries over time. This restricts blood flow and results in chronic pulmonary hypertension.
Preventions for Pulmonary embolism
Preventing clots in the deep veins in your legs will help prevent pulmonary embolisms. For this reason, most hospitals are aggressive about taking measures to prevent blood clots, including:
Blood thinners (anticoagulants). These medicines are often given to people at risk of clots before and after surgery. Also, they're often given to people admitted to the hospital with certain medical conditions, such as heart attack, stroke or complications of cancer.
Compression stockings. Compression stockings steadily squeeze the legs, helping veins and leg muscles move blood more efficiently. They offer a safe, simple and inexpensive way to keep blood from pooling in the legs during and after surgery.
Leg elevation. Elevating your legs when possible and during the night can be very effective. Raise the bottom of your bed 4 to 6 inches (10 to 15 cm) with blocks or books.
Physical activity. Moving as soon as possible after surgery can help prevent pulmonary embolism and hasten recovery overall. This is one of the main reasons your nurse may push you to get up, even on your day of surgery, and walk despite pain at the site of your surgical incision.
Pneumatic compression. This treatment uses thigh-high or calf-high cuffs that automatically inflate with air and deflate every few minutes. This massages and squeezes the veins in your legs and improves blood flow.
Condition name:Pulmonary fibrosis
Overview of Pulmonary fibrosis:
Pulmonary fibrosis is a lung disease that occurs when lung tissue becomes damaged and scarred. This thickened, stiff tissue makes it harder for the lungs to work properly. Pulmonary fibrosis worsens over time. Some people can stay stable for a long time, but the condition gets worse faster in others. As it gets worse, people become more and more short of breath.
The scarring that happens in pulmonary fibrosis can be caused by many things. Often, doctors and other healthcare professionals cannot pinpoint what's causing the problem. When a cause cannot be found, the condition is called idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis usually occurs in middle-aged and older adults. Sometimes pulmonary fibrosis is diagnosed in children and infants, but this is not common.
The lung damage caused by pulmonary fibrosis cannot be repaired. Medicines and therapies can sometimes help slow down the rate of fibrosis, ease symptoms and improve quality of life. For some people, a lung transplant might be an option.
Home Remedies for Pulmonary fibrosis:
Being actively involved in your treatment and staying as healthy as possible are essential to living with pulmonary fibrosis. It's important to:
Stop smoking. If you have lung disease, it is important to stop smoking. Talk with your healthcare team about options for quitting, including smoking cessation programs. These use proven techniques to help people quit. Because secondhand smoke can be harmful to your lungs, avoid being around people who are smoking.
Avoid other things that can irritate your lungs. Breathing indoor pollutants, such as fumes from heating fuel or chemicals, can irritate your lungs. So can outdoor pollutants, such as dust or car exhaust.
Eat well. People with lung disease may lose weight both because eating is not comfortable and because of the extra energy it takes to breathe. A healthy diet that contains enough calories is needed. Try to eat smaller meals more often during the day. A dietitian can give you more information on healthy eating for your condition.
Get moving. Regular exercise can help you keep your lung function and manage your stress. Aim to include physical activity, such as walking or biking, into your daily routine. Talk to your healthcare team about what activities may be best for you. If over time you need help getting around, such as using a wheelchair, look for active movements you can do that do not require walking. One example is tai chi.
Take time to rest. Make sure to get enough rest. Taking time to rest can help you have more energy and cope with the stress of your condition. If you have problems sleeping, talk with your healthcare team.
Get vaccinated. Respiratory infections, such as colds and flu, can worsen symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis. Make sure that you get the pneumonia vaccine, an annual flu shot and COVID-19 vaccines. It's important that your family members also be vaccinated. Try to stay out of crowds when possible.
Follow your treatment plan. You usually need ongoing treatment from your healthcare team. Follow the care team's instructions. Take your medicines as prescribed. Adjust your diet and exercise as needed. Attend pulmonary rehabilitation sessions. Go to all of your appointments and contact your care team if symptoms worsen.
Symptoms for Pulmonary fibrosis :
Symptoms of pulmonary fibrosis may include:
Shortness of breath.
Dry cough.
Extreme tiredness.
Weight loss that's not intended.
Aching muscles and joints.
Widening and rounding of the tips of the fingers or toes, called clubbing.
How fast pulmonary fibrosis worsens over time and how severe the symptoms are can vary greatly from person to person. Some people become ill very quickly with severe disease. Others have moderate symptoms that worsen more slowly, over months or years.
Causes for Pulmonary fibrosis :
Pulmonary fibrosis is scarring and thickening of the tissue around and between the air sacs called alveoli in the lungs. These changes make it harder for oxygen to pass into the bloodstream.
Damage to the lungs that results in pulmonary fibrosis may be caused by many different things. Examples include long-term exposure to certain toxins, radiation therapy, some medicines and certain medical conditions. In some cases, the cause of pulmonary fibrosis is not known.
Risk Factors for Pulmonary fibrosis:
Pulmonary fibrosis has been found in children and infants, but this is not common. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is much more likely to affect middle-aged and older adults. Other types of pulmonary fibrosis, such as that caused by connective tissue disease, can occur in younger people.
Factors that can raise your risk of pulmonary fibrosis include:
Smoking. If you smoke now or used to smoke, you're at a higher risk of pulmonary fibrosis than people who never smoked. People with emphysema are at higher risk, too.
Certain types of work. You have a higher risk of developing pulmonary fibrosis if you work in mining, farming or construction. The risk also is higher if you have continuous or repeated contact with pollutants known to damage the lungs.
Cancer treatments. Having radiation treatments to your chest or using certain chemotherapy medicines can raise your risk of pulmonary fibrosis.
Genetics. Some types of pulmonary fibrosis run in families, so genes may play a role.
Complications for Pulmonary fibrosis:
Complications of pulmonary fibrosis may include:
High blood pressure in the lungs. Called pulmonary hypertension, this type of high blood pressure affects the arteries in the lungs. These are the pulmonary arteries. Stiff and thick arteries may slow down or block blood flow through the lungs. This raises the pressure inside the pulmonary arteries and the lower right heart chamber, called the right ventricle.
Right-sided heart failure. This serious condition occurs when your heart's right chamber has to pump harder than usual to move blood through partly blocked pulmonary arteries.
Respiratory failure. This is often the last stage of long-term lung disease. It occurs when blood oxygen levels fall dangerously low.
Lung cancer. Long-standing pulmonary fibrosis increases your risk of developing lung cancer.
Other lung problems. As pulmonary fibrosis gets worse over time, it may lead to serious problems such as blood clots in the lungs, a collapsed lung or lung infections.
There are no preventive measures available for Pulmonary fibrosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pulmonary hypertension
Overview of Pulmonary hypertension:
Pulmonary hypertension is a type of high blood pressure that affects the arteries in the lungs and the right side of the heart.
In one form of pulmonary hypertension, called pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), blood vessels in the lungs are narrowed, blocked or destroyed. The damage slows blood flow through the lungs. Blood pressure in the lung arteries goes up. The heart must work harder to pump blood through the lungs. The extra effort eventually causes the heart muscle to become weak and fail.
In some people, pulmonary hypertension slowly gets worse and can be life-threatening. There's no cure for pulmonary hypertension. But treatments are available to help you feel better, live longer and improve your quality of life.
Home Remedies for Pulmonary hypertension:
Lifestyle changes may help improve pulmonary hypertension symptoms. Try these tips:
Eat healthy. Eat a healthy diet rich in whole grains, fruits and vegetables, lean meats, and low-fat dairy products. Try to stay away from saturated fat, trans fat and cholesterol. Limit salt.
Stay as active as possible and manage weight. Even mild forms activity might be too exhausting for some people who have pulmonary hypertension. For others, moderate exercise, such as walking, might be helpful â€” especially when done during oxygen therapy. Your health care team can help you plan an appropriate exercise program.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, the most important thing you can do for your heart and lungs is to stop. If you need support quitting, ask your health care team for treatment that can help. Avoid secondhand smoke too, if possible.
Get plenty of rest. Resting can reduce tiredness related to pulmonary hypertension.
Avoid high altitudes. High altitudes can make pulmonary hypertension worse. If you live at an altitude of 8,000 feet (2,438 meters) or higher, you might be told to consider moving to a lower altitude.
Avoid activities that can excessively lower blood pressure. These include sitting in a hot tub or sauna or taking long hot baths or showers. Such activities lower blood pressure and can cause fainting or even death. Also, do not do activities that cause a lot of straining, such as lifting heavy objects or weights.
Give your health care team a list of your medicines. Some medicines can make pulmonary hypertension worse or affect its treatment.
Get regular health checkups. Tell your health care team about any new or worsening symptoms or medicine side effects. If pulmonary hypertension affects your quality of life, ask about options that could help.
Get recommended vaccines. Respiratory infections can cause serious health concerns for people with pulmonary hypertension. Ask your health care team about recommend vaccines to prevent common viral infections.
Talk to a health care professional before becoming pregnant. Pulmonary hypertension can cause serious complications to both mother and baby during pregnancy. Birth control pills can increase the risk of blood clots. Talk to your health care team about other birth control options.
Symptoms for Pulmonary hypertension :
The symptoms of pulmonary hypertension develop slowly. You may not notice them for months or even years. Symptoms get worse as the disease progresses.
Pulmonary hypertension symptoms include:
Shortness of breath, at first while exercising and eventually while at rest.
Blue or gray skin color due to low oxygen levels. Depending on your skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Chest pressure or pain.
Dizziness or fainting spells.
Fast pulse or pounding heartbeat.
Fatigue.
Swelling in the ankles, legs and belly area.
Shortness of breath is the most common symptom of pulmonary hypertension. But it may be caused by other health conditions such as asthma. See a health care professional for an accurate diagnosis.
Causes for Pulmonary hypertension :
The typical heart has two upper chambers and two lower chambers. Each time blood moves through the heart, the lower right chamber pumps blood to the lungs. The blood passes through a large blood vessel called the pulmonary artery.
Blood usually flows easily through blood vessels in the lungs to the left side of the heart. These blood vessels are the pulmonary arteries, capillaries and veins.
But changes in the cells that line the lung arteries can cause the artery walls to become narrow, stiff, swollen and thick. These changes may slow down or stop blood flow through the lungs, causing pulmonary hypertension.
Pulmonary hypertension is classified into five groups, depending on the cause.
Risk Factors for Pulmonary hypertension:
Pulmonary hypertension is usually diagnosed in people ages 30 to 60. Growing older can increase the risk of developing Group 1 pulmonary hypertension, called pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). PAH from an unknown cause is more common in younger adults.
Other things that can raise the risk of pulmonary hypertension are:
A family history of the condition.
Being overweight.
Smoking.
Blood-clotting disorders or a family history of blood clots in the lungs.
Exposure to asbestos.
A heart problem that you're born with, called a congenital heart defect.
Living at a high altitude.
Use of certain drugs, including some weight-loss medicines and illegal drugs such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
Complications for Pulmonary hypertension:
Potential complications of pulmonary hypertension include:
Right-sided heart enlargement and heart failure. Also called cor pulmonale, this condition causes the heart's right lower chamber to get larger. The chamber has to pump harder than usual to move blood through narrowed or blocked lung arteries.
As a result, the heart walls thicken. The right lower heart chamber stretches to increase the amount of blood it can hold. These changes create more strain on the heart, and eventually the right lower heart chamber fails.
Blood clots. Having pulmonary hypertension increases the risk of blood clots in the small arteries in the lungs.
Irregular heartbeats. Pulmonary hypertension can cause changes in the heartbeat, called arrhythmias, which can be life-threatening.
Bleeding in the lungs. Pulmonary hypertension can lead to life-threatening bleeding into the lungs and coughing up blood.
Pregnancy complications. Pulmonary hypertension can be life-threatening for the mother and the developing baby.
There are no preventive measures available for Pulmonary hypertension in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pulmonary valve disease
Overview of Pulmonary valve disease:
Pulmonary valve disease affects the valve between the heart's lower right chamber and the artery that delivers blood to the lungs. That artery is called the pulmonary artery. The valve is called the pulmonary valve.
A diseased pulmonary valve doesn't work properly. Pulmonary valve disease changes how blood flows from the heart to the lungs.
The pulmonary valve usually acts like a one-way door from the lower right heart chamber to the lungs. Blood flows from the chamber through the pulmonary valve. It then goes to the pulmonary artery and into the lungs. Blood picks up oxygen in the lungs to take to the body.
Types of pulmonary valve disease include:
Pulmonary valve stenosis. Narrowing of the pulmonary valve reduces the blood flow from the heart to the pulmonary artery and lungs.
Pulmonary valve regurgitation. The flaps of the pulmonary valve don't close tightly. Blood moves backward into the right lower heart chamber, called the right ventricle.
Pulmonary atresia. This condition is present at birth. That means it is a congenital heart defect. The pulmonary valve isn't formed. Instead, a solid sheet of tissue blocks blood flow from the right side of the heart. Blood can't go to the lungs to pick up oxygen.
Many types of pulmonary valve disease are due to heart conditions present at birth. Treatment depends on the type and severity of pulmonary valve disease.
There are no home remedies available for Pulmonary valve disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pulmonary valve disease :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Pulmonary valve disease in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Pulmonary valve disease in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Pulmonary valve disease in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Pulmonary valve disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pyloric stenosis
Overview of Pyloric stenosis:
Pyloric stenosis is an uncommon condition in infants that blocks food from entering the small intestine.
Typically, a muscular valve between the stomach and small intestine holds food in the stomach until it is ready for the next stage in the digestive process. This valve is called the pylorus valve. In pyloric stenosis, the pylorus muscles thicken and become abnormally large, blocking food from reaching the small intestine.
Pyloric stenosis can lead to forceful vomiting, dehydration and weight loss. Babies with pyloric stenosis may seem to be hungry all the time.
Surgery cures pyloric stenosis.
There are no home remedies available for Pyloric stenosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pyloric stenosis :
Symptoms of pyloric stenosis usually appear within 3 to 5 weeks after birth. Pyloric stenosis is rare in babies older than 3 months.
Symptoms include:
Vomiting after feeding. The baby may vomit forcefully, ejecting breast milk or formula up to several feet away. This is known as projectile vomiting. Vomiting might be mild at first. But over time, it becomes more severe as the pylorus opening narrows. The vomit may sometimes contain blood.
Persistent hunger. Babies who have pyloric stenosis often want to eat soon after vomiting.
Stomach contractions. You may notice wavelike contractions that ripple across your baby's upper stomach area soon after feeding but before vomiting. These contractions are part of the digestive process known as peristalsis. The contractions are caused by stomach muscles trying to force food through the narrowed pylorus.
Dehydration. Your baby might cry without tears or become lethargic. You might find yourself changing fewer wet diapers or diapers that aren't as wet as you expect.
Changes in bowel movements. Since pyloric stenosis prevents food from reaching the intestines, babies with this condition might be constipated.
Weight problems. Pyloric stenosis can keep a baby from gaining weight, and sometimes can cause weight loss.
Causes for Pyloric stenosis :
The causes of pyloric stenosis are unknown, but genetic and environmental factors might play a role. Pyloric stenosis usually isn't present at birth and probably develops afterward.
Risk Factors for Pyloric stenosis:
Risk factors for pyloric stenosis include:
Sex. Pyloric stenosis is seen more often in boys, especially firstborn children, than in girls.
Race and ethnicity. Pyloric stenosis is more common in white and Hispanic children.
Premature birth. Pyloric stenosis is more common in babies born prematurely than in full-term babies.
Family history. Studies found higher rates of this disorder among certain families. Pyloric stenosis develops in about 20% of male descendants and 10% of female descendants of mothers who had the condition.
Smoking during pregnancy. This behavior can nearly double the risk of pyloric stenosis.
Early antibiotic use. Babies given certain antibiotics in the first weeks of life — erythromycin to treat whooping cough, for example — have an increased risk of pyloric stenosis. In addition, babies born to mothers who took certain antibiotics in late pregnancy may have an increased risk of pyloric stenosis.
Bottle-feeding. Some studies suggest that bottle-feeding rather than breastfeeding can increase the risk of pyloric stenosis. Most of the people who participated in these studies used formula rather than breast milk, so it isn't clear whether the increased risk is related to formula or the mechanism of bottle-feeding.
Complications for Pyloric stenosis:
Pyloric stenosis can lead to:
Failure to grow and develop.
Dehydration. Frequent vomiting can cause dehydration and a mineral imbalance. These minerals are called electrolytes. Electrolytes help regulate many vital functions.
Stomach irritation. Repeated vomiting can irritate your baby's stomach and may cause mild bleeding.
Jaundice. Rarely, a substance secreted by the liver can build up, causing a yellowing of the skin and eyes. This substance is known as bilirubin.
There are no preventive measures available for Pyloric stenosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Pyoderma gangrenosum
Overview of Pyoderma gangrenosum:
Pyoderma gangrenosum (pie-o-DUR-muh gang-ruh-NO-sum) is a rare condition that causes large, painful sores (ulcers) to develop on your skin, most often on your legs.
The exact causes of pyoderma gangrenosum are unknown, but it appears to be a disorder of the immune system. People who have certain underlying conditions, such as inflammatory bowel disease or arthritis, are at higher risk of pyoderma gangrenosum.
Pyoderma gangrenosum ulcers can develop quickly. They usually clear up with treatment, but scarring and recurrences are common.
There are no home remedies available for Pyoderma gangrenosum in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Pyoderma gangrenosum :
Pyoderma gangrenosum usually starts with a small, red bump on your skin, which may resemble a spider bite. Within days, this bump can develop into a large, painful open sore.
The ulcer usually appears on your legs, but may develop anywhere on your body. Sometimes it appears around surgical sites. If you have several ulcers, they may grow and merge into one larger ulcer.
Causes for Pyoderma gangrenosum :
The exact cause of pyoderma gangrenosum is unknown. The condition is not infectious or contagious. It's often associated with autoimmune diseases such as ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease and arthritis. And it may have a genetic component.
If you have pyoderma gangrenosum, new skin trauma, such as a cut or puncture wound, may trigger new ulcers.
Risk Factors for Pyoderma gangrenosum:
Certain factors may increase your risk of pyoderma gangrenosum, including:
Your age and sex. The condition can affect anyone at any age, though it's more common between 20 and 50 years of age.
Having inflammatory bowel disease. People with a digestive tract disease such as ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease are at increased risk of pyoderma gangrenosum.
Having arthritis. People with rheumatoid arthritis are at increased risk of pyoderma gangrenosum.
Having a blood disorder. People with acute myelogenous leukemia, myelodysplasia or a myeloproliferative disorder are at increased risk of pyoderma gangrenosum.
Complications for Pyoderma gangrenosum:
Possible complications of pyoderma gangrenosum include infection, scarring, uncontrolled pain, depression and loss of mobility.
Preventions for Pyoderma gangrenosum
You can't totally prevent pyoderma gangrenosum. If you have the condition, try to avoid injuring your skin. Injury or trauma to your skin, including from surgery, can provoke new ulcers to form. It may also help to control any underlying condition that may be causing the ulcers.
Condition name:Radiation enteritis
Overview of Radiation enteritis:
Radiation enteritis is inflammation of the intestines that occurs after radiation therapy.
Radiation enteritis causes diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and stomach cramps in people receiving radiation aimed at the abdomen, pelvis or rectum. It's most common in people receiving radiation therapy for cancer in the abdomen and pelvic areas.
For most people, radiation enteritis is temporary, with inflammation usually subsiding several weeks after treatment ends. But for some, radiation enteritis may continue long after radiation therapy ends or may develop months or years after treatment.
Chronic radiation enteritis can cause complications such as anemia, diarrhea or bowel obstruction.
Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms until the inflammation heals. In severe cases, tube feeding or surgery to remove sections of the intestine may be necessary.
There are no home remedies available for Radiation enteritis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Radiation enteritis :
The symptoms of radiation enteritis include diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and stomach cramps. Symptoms occur because of irritation of the intestines from radiation therapy for cancer. Symptoms usually go away several weeks after treatment ends. But sometimes they last longer. Radiation enteritis that goes on for longer can cause anemia and bowel obstruction.
There are no Causes available for Radiation enteritis in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Radiation enteritis:
The risk of radiation enteritis is higher in people undergoing radiation treatments for cancers in the belly and the pelvis. Radiation enteritis occurs because radiation therapy can cause irritation of the intestines.
There are no Complications available for Radiation enteritis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Radiation enteritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Radiation sickness
Overview of Radiation sickness:
Radiation sickness is damage to the body caused by a large dose of radiation often received over a short time. This is called acute radiation sickness. The amount of radiation absorbed by the body, called the absorbed dose, determines how bad the illness will be.
Radiation sickness also is called acute radiation syndrome or radiation poisoning. Radiation sickness is not caused by common medical imaging tests that use low-dose radiation, such as X-rays, CT scans and nuclear medicine scans.
Although radiation sickness is serious and often fatal, it's rare. Since the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan, during World War II, most cases of radiation sickness have occurred after nuclear industrial accidents, such as the 1986 fire that damaged the nuclear power plant at Chernobyl, Ukraine.
There are no home remedies available for Radiation sickness in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Radiation sickness :
The severity of radiation sickness symptoms depends on how much radiation you've absorbed. How much you absorb depends on the strength of the radiated energy, the time of your exposures, and the distance between you and the source of radiation.
Symptoms also are affected by the type of exposure, such as total or partial body. The severity of radiation sickness also depends on how sensitive the affected tissue is. For instance, the gastrointestinal system and bone marrow are highly sensitive to radiation.
Causes for Radiation sickness :
Radiation sickness is caused by being exposed to a high dose of radiation. Radiation is the energy released from atoms as either a wave or a tiny particle of matter.
Radiation sickness happens when high-energy radiation damages or destroys certain cells in the body. Areas of the body most at risk of being affected by high-energy radiation are the bone marrow cells and the lining of the intestinal tract.
Risk Factors for Radiation sickness:
Being exposed to a source of high-dose radiation increases the risk of radiation sickness. Sources of high-dose radiation include:
An accident at a nuclear industrial facility.
An attack on a nuclear industrial facility.
A small radioactive device going off.
An explosive device that sends out radioactive material. This is called a dirty bomb.
A nuclear weapon going off.
Complications for Radiation sickness:
Having radiation sickness can contribute to both short-term and long-term mental health problems, such as grief, fear and anxiety about:
Experiencing a radioactive accident or attack.
Mourning friends or family who haven't survived.
Dealing with the uncertainty of a mysterious and potentially fatal illness.
Worrying about the eventual risk of cancer due to radiation exposure.
Preventions for Radiation sickness
In the event of a radiation emergency, listen to the radio or watch television to hear what protective actions local, state and federal authorities recommend. Those actions depend on the situation, but you will be told to either stay in place or evacuate your area.
Condition name:Raynaud's disease
Overview of Raynaud's disease:
Raynaud's (ray-NOSE) disease causes some areas of the body — such as fingers and toes — to feel numb and cold in response to cold temperatures or stress. In Raynaud's disease, smaller arteries that supply blood to the skin narrow. This limits blood flow to affected areas, which is called vasospasm.
Other names for this condition are:
Raynaud's phenomenon.
Raynaud syndrome.
Women are more likely than men to have Raynaud's disease. It seems to be more common in people who live in colder climates.
Treatment of Raynaud's disease depends on its severity and whether you have other health conditions. For most people, Raynaud's disease isn't disabling, but it can affect your quality of life.
There are no home remedies available for Raynaud's disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Raynaud's disease :
Symptoms of Raynaud's disease include:
Cold fingers or toes.
Areas of skin that turn white then blue. Depending on your skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Numb, prickly feeling or stinging pain upon warming or stress relief.
During an attack of Raynaud's, affected areas of the skin usually first turn pale. Next, they often change color and feel cold and numb. When the skin warms and blood flow improves, the affected areas may change color again, throb, tingle or swell.
Raynaud's most commonly affects fingers and toes. But it also can affect other areas of the body, such as nose, lips, ears and even nipples. After warming up, the return of blood flow to the area can take 15 minutes.
Causes for Raynaud's disease :
Experts don't fully understand the cause of Raynaud's attacks. But blood vessels in the hands and feet appear to react too strongly to cold temperatures or stress.
With Raynaud's, arteries to the fingers and toes narrow when exposed to cold or stress. The narrowed arteries limit blood flow. Over time, these small arteries can thicken slightly and limit blood flow even more.
Cold temperatures are the most likely cause of an attack. Examples are putting hands in cold water, taking something from a freezer or being in cold air. For some people, emotional stress can trigger an episode.
Risk Factors for Raynaud's disease:
Risk factors for primary Raynaud's include:
Sex. The condition affects more women than men.
Age. Although anyone can develop the condition, primary Raynaud's often begins between the ages of 15 and 30.
Climate. The illness also is more common in people who live in colder climates.
Family history. Having a parent, sibling or child with the disease appears to increase the risk of primary Raynaud's.
Risk factors for secondary Raynaud's include:
Certain diseases. These include conditions such as scleroderma and lupus.
Certain jobs. These include jobs that cause repeated trauma, such as using tools that vibrate.
Certain substances. This includes smoking, taking medicines that affect the blood vessels and being around certain chemicals, such as vinyl chloride.
Complications for Raynaud's disease:
If secondary Raynaud's is severe, reduced blood flow to fingers or toes could cause tissue damage. But that's rare.
A completely blocked artery can lead to skin sores or dead tissue. This can be difficult to treat. Rarely, very bad untreated instances might require removing the affected part of the body.
Preventions for Raynaud's disease
To help prevent Raynaud's attacks:
Bundle up outdoors. When it's cold, wear a hat, scarf, socks and boots, and two sets of mittens or gloves. Thermal underwear might help. A coat with cuffs that close around mittens or gloves helps protect the hands from cold air.
Wear earmuffs and a face mask if the tip of your nose and your earlobes get too cold.
Warm your car. Run your car heater for a few minutes before driving in cold weather.
Take care indoors. Wear socks. To take food out of the refrigerator or freezer, wear gloves, mittens or oven mitts. Some people find it helpful to wear mittens and socks to bed during winter.
Because air conditioning can cause attacks, set your air conditioner to a warmer temperature. Use drinking glasses that keep hands from feeling cold.
Condition name:Rectal cancer
Overview of Rectal cancer:
Rectal cancer is a kind of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the rectum. The rectum is the last several inches of the large intestine. It starts at the end of the final segment of the colon and ends when it reaches the short, narrow passage known as the anus.
Cancer inside the rectum and cancer inside the colon are often referred to together as colorectal cancer.
While rectal and colon cancers are similar in many ways, their treatments are quite different. This is mainly because the rectum is barely separated from other organs and structures. It sits in a tight space that can make surgery to remove rectal cancer complex.
Rectal cancer treatment usually involves surgery to remove the cancer. Other treatments may include chemotherapy, radiation or a combination of the two. Targeted therapy and immunotherapy also may be used.
There are no home remedies available for Rectal cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rectal cancer :
Rectal cancer may not cause symptoms early on. Symptoms of rectal cancer usually happen when the disease is advanced.
Signs and symptoms of rectal cancer include:
A change in bowel habits, such as diarrhea, constipation or a more-frequent need to pass stool.
A feeling that the bowel doesn't empty completely.
Abdominal pain.
Dark maroon or bright red blood in stool.
Narrow stool.
Weight loss that happens without trying.
Weakness or fatigue.
Causes for Rectal cancer :
The exact cause of most rectal cancers isn't known.
Rectal cancer happens when cells in the rectum develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Rectal cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of rectal cancer are the same as those that increase the risk of colon cancer. Colorectal cancer risk factors include:
A personal history of colorectal cancer or polyps. Your risk of colorectal cancer is higher if you've already had rectal cancer, colon cancer or adenomatous polyps.
Black race. Black people in the United States have a greater risk of colorectal cancer than do people of other races.
Diabetes. People with type 2 diabetes may have an increased risk of colorectal cancer.
Drinking alcohol. Heavy drinking increases the risk of colorectal cancer.
A diet low in vegetables. Colorectal cancer may be related to a diet low in vegetables and high in red meat.
Family history of colorectal cancer. You're more likely to develop colorectal cancer if you have a parent, sibling or child with colon or rectal cancer.
Inflammatory bowel disease. Chronic inflammatory diseases of the colon and rectum, such as ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, increase your risk of colorectal cancer.
Inherited syndromes that increase colorectal cancer risk. In some families, DNA changes passed from parents to children may increase the risk of colorectal cancer. These changes are involved in only a small percentage of rectal cancers. Inherited syndromes may include familial adenomatous polyposis, also known as FAP, and Lynch syndrome. Genetic testing can detect these and other, rarer inherited colorectal cancer syndromes.
Obesity. People who are obese have an increased risk of colorectal cancer compared with people considered to be at a healthy weight.
Older age. Colorectal cancer can be diagnosed at any age, but most people with this type of cancer are older than 50. The rates of colorectal cancer in people younger than 50 have been increasing, but healthcare professionals aren't sure why.
Radiation therapy for previous cancer. Radiation therapy directed at the abdomen to treat previous cancers may increase the risk of colorectal cancer.
Smoking. People who smoke may have an increased risk of colorectal cancer.
Too little exercise. If you're inactive, you're more likely to develop colorectal cancer. Getting regular physical activity may reduce your risk of cancer.
Complications for Rectal cancer:
Rectal cancer can lead to complications, including:
Bleeding in the rectum. Rectal cancer often causes bleeding in the rectum. Sometimes the amount of blood is worrying, and treatment might be needed to stop it right away.
Intestinal obstruction. Rectal cancer can grow to block the intestines. This prevents stool from leaving the body. Surgery to remove the cancer often relieves an obstruction. If you can't have surgery right away, you might need other treatments to ease the blockage.
Intestinal perforation. Rectal cancer may cause a tear in the intestines. Perforation typically requires surgery.
Preventions for Rectal cancer
There's no sure way to prevent rectal cancer, but you can reduce your risk if you:
Condition name:Rectal prolapse
Overview of Rectal prolapse:
Rectal prolapse happens when part of the large intestine's lowest section, the rectum, slips outside the muscular opening at the end of the digestive tract known as the anus. While rectal prolapse may cause pain, it's rarely a medical emergency.
Rectal prolapse is sometimes treated with stool softeners, suppositories and other medicines. But surgery is usually needed to treat rectal prolapse.
There are no home remedies available for Rectal prolapse in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rectal prolapse :
If you have rectal prolapse, you may notice a reddish lump that comes out of the anus, often while straining during a bowel movement. The lump may slip back inside the anus, or it may continue to be seen.
Other symptoms may include:
You cannot control your bowel movements, known as fecal incontinence.
Constipation or loose stools.
Leaking blood or mucus from the rectum.
Feeling that your rectum isn't empty after a bowel movement.
Causes for Rectal prolapse :
The cause of rectal prolapse is unclear. Though it's a common belief that rectal prolapse is related to childbirth, about one-third of women with this health problem never had children.
Risk Factors for Rectal prolapse:
Some things may increase your risk of getting rectal prolapse, including:
Sex. Most people with rectal prolapse are women.
Age. Rectal prolapse most often happens in people over age 50.
Constipation. Straining may increase the risk of rectal prolapse.
There are no Complications available for Rectal prolapse in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Rectal prolapse in the knowledge baseCondition name:Rectovaginal fistula
Overview of Rectovaginal fistula:
A rectovaginal fistula is a connection that should not exist between the lower part of the large intestine — the rectum or anus — and the vagina. Bowel contents can leak through the fistula, allowing gas or stool to pass through the vagina.
A rectovaginal fistula may result from:
Injury during childbirth.
Crohn's disease or other inflammatory bowel disease.
Radiation treatment or cancer in the pelvic area.
Complication after surgery in the pelvic area.
Complication from diverticulitis, an infection of small, bulging pouches in the digestive tract.
The condition may cause gas and stool to leak out of the vagina. This may lead to emotional distress and physical discomfort for you, which may impact your self-esteem and intimacy.
Talk with your health care provider if you have symptoms of a rectovaginal fistula, even if it's embarrassing. Some rectovaginal fistulas may close on their own, but most need surgery to fix them.
There are no home remedies available for Rectovaginal fistula in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rectovaginal fistula :
The most common symptom of a rectovaginal fistula is passing gas or stool from the vagina. Depending on the fistula's size and location, you may have only minor symptoms. Or you may have significant problems with stool and gas leakage and keeping the area clean.
Causes for Rectovaginal fistula :
A rectovaginal fistula may form as a result of:
Injuries during childbirth. Delivery-related injuries are the most common cause of rectovaginal fistulas. Injuries include tears in the perineum — the skin between the vagina and the anus — that extend to the bowel or an infection. Fistulas caused by injuries during childbirth may involve injury to the anal sphincter — the rings of muscle at the end of the rectum that help hold in stool.
Inflammatory bowel disease. The second most common cause of rectovaginal fistulas is Crohn's disease and, more rarely, ulcerative colitis. These inflammatory bowel diseases cause swelling and irritation of the tissues lining the digestive tract. Most people with Crohn's disease never develop a rectovaginal fistula, but having Crohn's disease does increase your risk of the condition.
Cancer or radiation treatment in the pelvic area. A cancerous tumor in your rectum, cervix, vagina, uterus or anal canal can result in a rectovaginal fistula. Also, radiation therapy for cancers in these areas can put you at risk. A fistula caused by radiation can form at any time following radiation treatment, but most commonly forms within the first two years.
Surgery involving the vagina, perineum, rectum or anus. In rare cases, prior surgery in your lower pelvic area, such as removing an infected Bartholin's gland, can cause a fistula to develop. Bartholin's glands are found on each side of the vaginal opening and help keep the vagina moist. The fistula may develop as a result of an injury during surgery or a leak or infection that develops afterward.
Complication from diverticulitis. Infection of small, bulging pouches in your digestive tract, called diverticulitis, may cause the rectum or large intestine to stick to the vagina and may lead to a fistula.
Other causes. Rarely, a rectovaginal fistula may develop following infections in the skin around the anus or vagina.
Risk Factors for Rectovaginal fistula:
A rectovaginal fistula has no clear risk factors.
Complications for Rectovaginal fistula:
Complications of a rectovaginal fistula may include:
Uncontrolled loss of stool, called fecal incontinence.
Problems keeping the perineum clean.
Recurrent vaginal or urinary tract infections.
Irritation or inflammation of your vagina, perineum or the skin around your anus.
Fistula recurrence.
Issues with self-esteem and intimacy.
Among people with Crohn's disease who develop a fistula, the chances of complications are high. These can include poor healing, or another fistula forming later.
Preventions for Rectovaginal fistula
There are no steps you need to take to prevent a rectovaginal fistula.
Condition name:Recurrent breast cancer
Overview of Recurrent breast cancer:
Recurrent breast cancer is breast cancer that comes back after initial treatment. Although the initial treatment is aimed at eliminating all cancer cells, a few may have evaded treatment and survived. These undetected cancer cells multiply, becoming recurrent breast cancer.
Recurrent breast cancer may occur months or years after your initial treatment. The cancer may come back in the same place as the original cancer (local recurrence), or it may spread to other areas of your body (distant recurrence).
Learning you have recurrent breast cancer may be harder than dealing with the initial diagnosis. But having recurrent breast cancer is far from hopeless. Treatment may eliminate local, regional or distant recurrent breast cancer. Even if a cure isn't possible, treatment may control the disease for long periods of time.
There are no home remedies available for Recurrent breast cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Recurrent breast cancer :
Signs and symptoms of recurrent breast cancer vary depending on where the cancer comes back.
Causes for Recurrent breast cancer :
Recurrent breast cancer occurs when cells that were part of your original breast cancer break away from the original tumor and hide nearby in the breast or in another part of your body. Later, these cells begin growing again.
The chemotherapy, radiation, hormone therapy or other treatment you may have received after your first breast cancer diagnosis was intended to kill any cancer cells that may have remained after surgery. But sometimes these treatments aren't able to kill all of the cancer cells.
Sometimes cancer cells may be dormant for years without causing harm. Then something happens that activates the cells, so they grow and spread to other parts of the body. It's not clear why this occurs.
Risk Factors for Recurrent breast cancer:
For breast cancer survivors, factors that increase the risk of a recurrence include:
Lymph node involvement. Finding cancer in nearby lymph nodes at the time of your original diagnosis increases your risk of the cancer coming back.
Larger tumor size. People with larger tumors have a greater risk of recurrent breast cancer.
Positive or close tumor margins. During breast cancer surgery, the surgeon tries to remove the cancer along with a small amount of the normal tissue that surrounds it. A pathologist examines the edges of the tissue to look for cancer cells.
If the borders are free of cancer when examined under a microscope, that's considered a negative margin. If any part of the border has cancer cells (positive margin), or the margin between the tumor and normal tissue is close, the risk of breast cancer recurrence is increased.
Lack of radiation treatment following a lumpectomy. Most people who choose a lumpectomy (wide local excision) for breast cancer undergo breast radiation therapy to reduce the risk of recurrence. Those who don't undergo the radiation therapy have an increased risk of local breast cancer recurrence.
Younger age. Younger people, particularly those under age 35 at the time of their original breast cancer diagnosis, face a higher risk of recurrent breast cancer.
Inflammatory breast cancer. People with inflammatory breast cancer have a higher risk of local recurrence.
Lack of endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-positive breast cancer. In people who have a certain type of breast cancer, not receiving endocrine therapy can raise their risk of recurrence.
Cancer cells with certain characteristics. If you had triple negative breast cancer, you may have an increased risk of breast cancer recurrence. Triple negative breast cancer cells don't have receptors for estrogen or progesterone, and they don't make too much of a protein called HER2.
Obesity. Having a higher body mass index increases your risk of recurrence.
There are no Complications available for Recurrent breast cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Recurrent breast cancer
Strategies that have been linked to a reduced risk of breast cancer recurrence include:
Hormone therapy. Taking hormone therapy after your initial treatment may reduce the risk of recurrence if you have hormone receptor positive breast cancer. Hormone therapy may continue for at least five years.
Chemotherapy. For people with breast cancer who have an increased risk of cancer recurrence, chemotherapy has been shown to decrease the chance that cancer will recur, and those who receive chemotherapy live longer.
Radiation therapy. People who've had a breast-sparing operation to treat their breast cancer and those who had a large tumor or inflammatory breast cancer have a lower chance of the cancer recurring if they're treated with radiation therapy.
Targeted therapy. If your cancer makes extra HER2 protein, drugs that target that protein can help decrease the chance of the cancer recurring.
Bone-building drugs. Taking bone-building drugs reduces the risk of cancer recurring in the bones (bone metastasis) in people with an increased risk for breast cancer recurrence.
Maintaining a healthy weight. Maintaining a healthy weight may help decrease the risk of recurrent breast cancer.
Exercising. Regular exercise may reduce your risk of breast cancer recurrence.
Choosing a healthy diet. Focus on including lots of vegetables, fruits and whole grains in your diet. If you choose to drink alcohol, limit yourself to one drink a day.
Condition name:REM sleep behavior disorder
Overview of REM sleep behavior disorder:
Rapid eye movement (REM) sleep behavior disorder is a sleep disorder in which you physically act out vivid, often unpleasant dreams with vocal sounds and sudden, often violent arm and leg movements during REM sleep — sometimes called dream-enacting behavior.
You normally don't move during REM sleep, a normal stage of sleep that occurs many times during the night. About 20 percent of your sleep is spent in REM sleep, the usual time for dreaming, which occurs primarily during the second half of the night.
The onset of REM sleep behavior disorder is often gradual and it can get worse with time.
REM sleep behavior disorder may be associated with other neurological conditions, such as Lewy body dementia (also called dementia with Lewy bodies), Parkinson's disease or multiple system atrophy.
There are no home remedies available for REM sleep behavior disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for REM sleep behavior disorder :
With REM sleep behavior disorder, instead of experiencing the normal temporary paralysis of your arms and legs (atonia) during REM sleep, you physically act out your dreams.
The onset can be gradual or sudden, and episodes may occur occasionally or several times a night. The disorder often worsens with time.
Symptoms of REM sleep behavior disorder may include:
Movement, such as kicking, punching, arm flailing or jumping from bed, in response to action-filled or violent dreams, such as being chased or defending yourself from an attack
Noises, such as talking, laughing, shouting, emotional outcries or even cursing
Being able to recall the dream if you awaken during the episode
Causes for REM sleep behavior disorder :
Nerve pathways in the brain that prevent muscles from moving are active during normal REM or dreaming sleep, resulting in temporary paralysis of your body. In REM sleep behavior disorder, these pathways no longer work and you may physically act out your dreams.
Risk Factors for REM sleep behavior disorder:
Factors associated with the development of REM sleep behavior disorder include:
Being male and over 50 years old — however, more women are now being diagnosed with the disorder, especially under age 50, and young adults and children can develop the disorder, usually in association with narcolepsy, antidepressant use or brain tumors
Having a certain type of neurodegenerative disorder, such as Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, stroke or dementia with Lewy bodies
Having narcolepsy, a chronic sleep disorder characterized by overwhelming daytime drowsiness
Taking certain medications, especially newer antidepressants, or the use or withdrawal of drugs or alcohol
Recent evidence suggests that there may also be several specific environmental or personal risk factors for REM sleep behavior disorder, including occupational pesticide exposure, farming, smoking or a previous head injury.
Complications for REM sleep behavior disorder:
Complications caused by REM sleep behavior disorder may include:
Distress to your sleeping partner or other people living in your home
Social isolation for fear that others may become aware of your sleep disruption
Injury to yourself or your sleeping partner
There are no preventive measures available for REM sleep behavior disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Renal artery stenosis
Overview of Renal artery stenosis:
Renal artery stenosis is the narrowing of one or more arteries that carry blood to your kidneys (renal arteries).
Narrowing of the arteries prevents enough oxygen-rich blood from reaching your kidneys. Your kidneys need adequate blood flow to help filter waste products and remove excess fluids. Reduced blood flow to your kidneys may injure kidney tissue and increase blood pressure throughout your body.
There are no home remedies available for Renal artery stenosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Renal artery stenosis :
Renal artery stenosis often doesn't cause any signs or symptoms until it's advanced. The condition may be discovered incidentally during testing for something else. Your health care provider may also suspect a problem if you have:
High blood pressure that begins suddenly or worsens without explanation
High blood pressure that begins before age 30 or after age 50
As renal artery stenosis progresses, other signs and symptoms may include:
High blood pressure that's hard to control
A whooshing sound as blood flows through a narrowed vessel (bruit), which your doctor hears through a stethoscope placed over your kidneys
Elevated protein levels in the urine or other signs of a problem with kidney function
Worsening kidney function during treatment for high blood pressure
Fluid overload and swelling in your body's tissues
Treatment-resistant heart failure
Causes for Renal artery stenosis :
The two main causes of renal artery stenosis include:
Buildup on kidney (renal) arteries. Fats, cholesterol and other substances (plaque) can build up in and on your kidney artery walls (atherosclerosis). As these deposits get larger, they can harden, reduce blood flow, cause kidney scarring and eventually narrow the artery. Atherosclerosis occurs in many areas of the body and is the most common cause of renal artery stenosis.
Fibromuscular dysplasia. In fibromuscular dysplasia, the muscle in the artery wall doesn't grow as it should. This often begins in childhood. The renal artery can have narrow sections alternating with wider sections, giving a bead-like appearance in images of the artery.
The renal artery can narrow so much that the kidney doesn't get enough blood. This can lead to high blood pressure at a young age. This can happen in one or both kidneys. Experts don't know what causes fibromuscular dysplasia, but the condition is more common in women and may be something that's present at birth (congenital).
Narrowed kidney arteries and fibromuscular dysplasia can affect other arteries in your body as well as your kidney arteries and cause complications.
Rarely, renal artery stenosis results from other conditions such as inflammation of the blood vessels or a growth that develops in your abdomen and presses on your kidneys' arteries.
Risk Factors for Renal artery stenosis:
Most cases of renal artery stenosis result from narrowed kidney arteries. Risk factors that make narrowed arteries more likely in your kidneys and other parts of your body include:
Aging
High blood pressure
High cholesterol
Diabetes
Obesity
Smoking and other tobacco use
A family history of early heart disease
Lack of exercise
Complications for Renal artery stenosis:
Possible complications of renal artery stenosis include:
High blood pressure
Kidney failure, requiring treatment with dialysis or a kidney transplant
Fluid retention in your legs, causing swollen ankles or feet
Shortness of breath due to a sudden buildup of fluid in the lungs
There are no preventive measures available for Renal artery stenosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Residual limb pain
Overview of Residual limb pain:
Residual limb pain, sometimes called stump pain, is a type of pain felt in the part of a limb that remains after an amputation. It occurs in about half of people who have had an amputation. It may occur soon after the surgery, often within the first week, but may also last beyond healing. Residual limb pain usually isn't severe, but it may feel:
Pressing
Throbbing
Burning
Squeezing
Stabbing
In some people, the residual limb may move uncontrollably in small or significant ways. Residual limb pain is different from phantom pain, which is pain that seems to come from an amputated limb. But residual limb pain and phantom pain often occur together. Research shows that more than half of people with phantom pain also have residual limb pain.
Residual limb pain may be caused by:
Problems in the bone or the soft tissue
Infection
Poor blood supply to the limb
A tumor
Problems with the fit or use of a prosthesis
There are no home remedies available for Residual limb pain in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Residual limb pain :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Residual limb pain in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Residual limb pain in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Residual limb pain in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Residual limb pain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Restless legs syndrome
Overview of Restless legs syndrome:
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a condition that causes a very strong urge to move the legs. The urge to move usually is caused by an uncomfortable feeling in the legs. It typically happens in the evening or at night when sitting or lying down. Moving eases the discomfort for a short time.
Restless legs syndrome can begin at any age and tends to get worse with age. It can disrupt sleep, which interferes with daily activities. RLS also is known as Willis-Ekbom disease.
Simple self-care steps and lifestyle changes may help relieve symptoms. Medicines also help many people with RLS.
There are no home remedies available for Restless legs syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Restless legs syndrome :
The chief symptom of restless legs syndrome is an urge to move the legs. It's common to experience:
Uncomfortable sensations that begin while resting. A feeling in the legs typically begins after you've been lying down or sitting for an extended time. It might happen while sitting in a car, airplane or movie theater.
Relief with movement. The sensation of RLS lessens with movement. Stretching, jiggling the legs, pacing or walking may improve symptoms.
Worsening of symptoms in the evening. Symptoms occur mainly at night.
Nighttime leg twitching. RLS may be associated with another, more common condition called periodic limb movement of sleep. This condition causes the legs to twitch and kick during sleep, possibly throughout the night.
People typically describe RLS symptoms as compelling, unpleasant feelings in the legs or feet. They usually happen on both sides of the body. Less commonly, the sensations affect the arms.
The sensations are felt within the leg rather than on the skin. They're described as:
Crawling.
Creeping.
Pulling.
Throbbing.
Aching.
Itching.
Electric.
Sometimes the feelings of RLS are hard to explain. People with RLS usually don't describe the condition as a muscle cramp or numbness. They do, however, consistently describe the desire to move the legs.
It's common for symptoms to get better and worse. Sometimes symptoms disappear for periods of time, then come back.
Causes for Restless legs syndrome :
Often, there's no known cause for restless legs syndrome. Researchers suspect the condition may be caused by an imbalance of the brain chemical dopamine. Dopamine sends messages to control muscle movement.
Risk Factors for Restless legs syndrome:
Restless legs syndrome can develop at any age, even during childhood. The condition is more common with increasing age. It's also more common in women than in men.
RLS usually isn't related to a serious underlying medical condition. However, it sometimes occurs with other conditions, such as:
Peripheral neuropathy. This damage to the nerves in the hands and feet is sometimes due to chronic diseases such as diabetes and alcohol use disorder.
Iron deficiency. Too little iron in the body, known as iron deficiency, can cause or worsen RLS. People who have a history of bleeding from the stomach or bowels may have iron deficiency. Deficiency also may affect people who have heavy menstrual periods or who often donate blood.
Kidney failure. If you have kidney failure, you also may have iron deficiency, often with anemia. When kidneys don't function properly, iron stores in the blood can decrease. This and other changes in body chemistry may cause or worsen RLS.
Spinal cord conditions. Damage or injury of the spinal cord has been linked to RLS. Having had anesthesia to the spinal cord, such as a spinal block, also increases the risk of developing RLS.
Parkinson's disease. People who have Parkinson's disease and take medicines called dopaminergic agonists have an increased risk of developing RLS.
Complications for Restless legs syndrome:
Restless legs syndrome symptoms can range from being mild to having a serious impact on people's lives. Many people with RLS find it hard to fall or stay asleep.
Serious symptoms of RLS can affect quality of life and result in depression. Not being able to sleep may lead to excessive daytime drowsiness, but RLS may interfere with napping.
There are no preventive measures available for Restless legs syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Retinal detachment
Overview of Retinal detachment:
Retinal detachment happens when the thin layer of tissue at the back of the eye pulls away from its regular position. This layer of tissue is called the retina. Retinal detachment is an emergency.
Retinal detachment separates the retinal cells from the layer of blood vessels that provides oxygen and nourishment to the eye. The longer retinal detachment goes without treatment, the greater the risk of permanent vision loss in the affected eye.
Symptoms of retinal detachment can include the following: reduced vision, the sudden appearance of dark floating shapes and flashes of light in your vision, and loss of side vision. Contacting an eye doctor, called an ophthalmologist, right away can help save your vision.
There are no home remedies available for Retinal detachment in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Retinal detachment :
Retinal detachment is painless. Often, symptoms are present before a retinal detachment happens or before it has gotten worse. You may notice symptoms such as:
The sudden appearance of tiny specks or squiggly lines that seem to drift through your field of vision. These are called floaters.
Flashes of light in one or both eyes. These are called photopsias.
Blurred vision.
Side vision, also called peripheral vision, that becomes worse.
A curtainlike shadow over your field of vision.
Causes for Retinal detachment :
There are three main types of retinal detachment, and their causes vary:
Rhegmatogenous (reg-mu-TOJ-uh-nus). This type of retinal detachment is the most common. A rhegmatogenous detachment is caused by a hole or tear in the retina that lets fluid pass through and collect underneath the retina. This fluid builds up and causes the retina to pull away from underlying tissues. The areas where the retina detaches lose their blood supply and stop working. This causes you to lose vision.
The most common cause of rhegmatogenous detachment is aging. As you age, gel-like material that fills the inside of your eye, called vitreous (VIT-ree-us), may change in texture and shrink or become more liquid. Usually, the vitreous separates from the surface of the retina without any complications. This is a common condition called a posterior vitreous detachment (PVD).
As the vitreous separates or peels off the retina, it may tug on the retina with enough force to create a tear. Most of the time it doesn't. But if a PVD causes a tear and the tear isn't treated, the liquid vitreous can pass through the tear into the space behind the retina. This causes the retina to detach.
Tractional. This type of detachment can happen when scar tissue grows on the retina's surface. The scar tissue causes the retina to pull away from the back of the eye. Tractional detachment usually is seen in people who have poorly controlled diabetes.
Exudative. In this type of detachment, fluid builds up beneath the retina, but there are no holes or tears in the retina. Exudative detachment can be caused by age-related macular degeneration, infection, tumors or inflammatory conditions.
Risk Factors for Retinal detachment:
The following factors raise your risk of retinal detachment:
Aging — retinal detachment is more common in people ages 40 to 70.
Past retinal detachment in one eye.
Family history of retinal detachment.
Extreme nearsightedness, also called myopia.
Past eye surgery, such as cataract removal.
Past severe eye injury.
History of other eye disease or condition, including retinoschisis, uveitis or thinning of the peripheral retina called lattice degeneration.
There are no Complications available for Retinal detachment in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Retinal detachment in the knowledge baseCondition name:Retinal diseases
Overview of Retinal diseases:
Retinal diseases vary widely, but most of them cause visual symptoms. Retinal diseases can affect any part of your retina, a thin layer of tissue on the inside back wall of the eye.
The retina contains millions of light-sensitive cells, called rods and cones, and other nerve cells that receive and organize visual information. The retina sends this information to the brain through the optic nerve, enabling you to see.
Treatment is available for some retinal diseases. Depending on your condition, treatment goals may be to stop or slow the disease. This may help preserve, improve or restore your vision. Untreated, some retinal diseases can cause severe vision loss or blindness.
There are no home remedies available for Retinal diseases in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Retinal diseases :
Many retinal diseases share some common symptoms. These may include:
Seeing floating specks or cobwebs.
Blurred or distorted vision in which straight lines can look wavy.
Defects in the side vision.
Vision loss.
You may need to try looking with each eye alone to notice these changes.
There are no Causes available for Retinal diseases in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Retinal diseases:
Risk factors for retinal diseases might include:
Aging.
Smoking.
Being obese.
Having diabetes or other diseases.
Eye trauma.
A family history of retinal diseases.
There are no Complications available for Retinal diseases in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Retinal diseases in the knowledge baseCondition name:Retinoblastoma
Overview of Retinoblastoma:
Retinoblastoma is a kind of eye cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the retina. The retina is the light-sensitive lining on the inside of the eye.
The retina is made up of nerve tissue that senses light as it comes in through the front of the eye. The light causes the retina to send signals to the brain. The brain interprets the signals as images.
Retinoblastoma happens most often in young children. It's usually diagnosed before age 2. It most often affects one eye. Sometimes it happens in both eyes.
There are several treatments for retinoblastoma. For most children, treatment doesn't require removing the eye to get rid of the cancer. The outlook for children diagnosed with retinoblastoma is quite good.
There are no home remedies available for Retinoblastoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Retinoblastoma :
Retinoblastoma signs and symptoms include:
A white color in the center circle of the eye when light is shone in the eye. It might show up in flash photos.
Eye redness.
Eye swelling.
Eyes that seem to be looking in different directions.
Vision loss.
Causes for Retinoblastoma :
Retinoblastoma is caused by changes inside the cells in the eye. It's not always clear what causes the changes that lead to this eye cancer.
Retinoblastoma starts when cells in the eye get changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions also tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
In retinoblastoma, this growth of cells happens in the retina. The retina is the light-sensitive lining on the inside of the eye. The retina is made up of nerve tissue that senses light as it comes in through the front of the eye. The light causes the retina to send signals to the brain. The brain interprets the signals as images.
As the cancer cells build up in the retina, they can form a mass, called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer. Retinoblastoma rarely spreads, especially if it's found early.
For most instances of retinoblastoma, it's not clear what causes the DNA changes that lead to cancer. However, it's possible for children to inherit DNA changes from their parents. These changes can increase the risk of retinoblastoma.
Risk Factors for Retinoblastoma:
Risk factors for retinoblastoma include:
Young age. Retinoblastoma is most common in very young children. It's typically diagnosed by age 2. Retinoblastoma that happens later in life is very rare.
DNA changes that run in families. DNA variations that increase the risk of retinoblastoma can be passed from parents to children. Children with these inherited DNA changes tend to get retinoblastoma at a younger age. They also tend to have retinoblastoma in both eyes.
Complications for Retinoblastoma:
Children with retinoblastoma can develop complications.
Preventions for Retinoblastoma
There's no way to prevent retinoblastoma.
Some retinoblastomas are caused by DNA changes that run in families. If retinoblastoma runs in your family, tell your healthcare professional. Together you might consider genetic testing to look for variations in your DNA that increase the risk of retinoblastoma. Your health professional might refer you to a genetic counselor or other healthcare professional trained in genetics. This person can help you decide whether to undergo genetic testing.
If your children have an increased risk of retinoblastoma, care can be planned to manage that risk. For instance, eye exams may begin soon after birth. That way, retinoblastoma may be diagnosed very early. These screening tests could find the cancer when it is small and has a greater chance of being cured.
If you haven't had children, but are planning to, talk with your healthcare team about your family history of retinoblastoma. Genetic testing might help you and your partner understand whether there is a risk of passing DNA variations to your future children. Your healthcare team may have options to help you manage this risk.
Condition name:Retractile testicle
Overview of Retractile testicle:
A retractile testicle is a testicle that may move back and forth between the scrotum and the groin. When the retractile testicle is in the groin, it might be easily guided by hand into its proper position in the scrotum — the bag of skin hanging behind the penis — during a physical exam. Upon release, the testicle will remain in the proper position at least temporarily.
For most boys, the problem of a retractile testicle goes away sometime before or during puberty. The testicle moves to its correct location in the scrotum and stays there permanently.
Sometimes the retractile testicle remains in the groin and is no longer movable. When this happens, the condition is called an ascending testicle or an acquired undescended testicle.
There are no home remedies available for Retractile testicle in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Retractile testicle :
Testicles form in the abdomen during fetal development. During the final months of development, the testicles gradually descend into the scrotum. If this descent isn't completed at birth, the testicle usually descends within a few months. If your son has a retractile testicle, the testicle originally descended as it should, but doesn't remain in place.
Symptoms of a retractile testicle include:
The testicle may be moved by hand from the groin into the scrotum and won't immediately retreat to the groin.
The testicle might spontaneously appear in the scrotum and remain there for a time.
The testicle might spontaneously disappear again for a time.
Retractile testicle is different from undescended testicle (cryptorchidism). An undescended testicle is one that never entered the scrotum.
Causes for Retractile testicle :
An overactive muscle causes a testicle to become a retractile testicle. The cremaster muscle is a thin pouch-like muscle in which a testicle rests. When the cremaster muscle contracts, it pulls the testicle up toward the body. The cremaster reflex can be stimulated by rubbing a nerve on the inner thigh and by emotion, such as fear and laughter. The cremaster is also activated by a cold environment.
If the cremaster reflex is strong enough, it can result in a retractile testicle, pulling the testicle out of the scrotum and up into the groin.
Risk Factors for Retractile testicle:
There are no known risk factors for retractile testicles.
Complications for Retractile testicle:
Retractile testicles are generally not associated with complications, aside from a greater risk of the testicle becoming an ascending testicle.
There are no preventive measures available for Retractile testicle in the knowledge baseCondition name:Reye's syndrome
Overview of Reye's syndrome:
Reye's syndrome is a serious condition that causes swelling in the liver and brain. It can occur at any age but usually affects children and teenagers after a viral infection, most commonly the flu or chickenpox. Reye's syndrome is rare. The condition also is known as Reye syndrome.
Symptoms such as confusion, seizures and loss of consciousness need emergency treatment. Early diagnosis and treatment of Reye's syndrome can save a child's life.
Aspirin has been linked with Reye's syndrome in children or teenagers who have the flu or chickenpox. Do not give children or teenagers aspirin. To treat fever or pain, consider giving your child infants' or children's acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others). Infants' or children's acetaminophen and ibuprofen medicines are safer alternatives to aspirin. Talk to your healthcare professional if you have concerns.
There are no home remedies available for Reye's syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Reye's syndrome :
The symptoms of Reye's syndrome usually start about 3 to 5 days after a viral infection begins. The viral infection may be the flu, also known as influenza, or chickenpox. Or Reye's syndrome may develop after an upper respiratory infection such as a cold.
In Reye's syndrome, a child's blood sugar usually drops while levels of ammonia and acidity in the blood rise. The liver also may swell, and fats may build up. Swelling may occur in the brain. This can cause seizures, convulsions or loss of consciousness.
Causes for Reye's syndrome :
The exact cause of Reye's syndrome is not known. The use of aspirin during a viral illness has most commonly been linked to Reye's syndrome. Several factors may play a role.
In some children, the symptoms of Reye's syndrome may be caused by another health condition, such as a metabolic condition. This can occur even without the use of aspirin.
Metabolic conditions are rare. The most common condition that causes Reye's syndrome is medium-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (MCAD) deficiency. In MCAD deficiency, the body can't break down certain fats to turn them into energy. This happens because an enzyme is missing or not working properly. MCAD deficiency is a fatty acid oxidation disorder.
In people with a fatty acid oxidation disorder, aspirin use during a viral illness is more likely to trigger symptoms of Reye's syndrome. A screening test can determine if your child has a fatty acid oxidation disorder.
Reye's syndrome may develop after influenza or chickenpox in particular.
Exposure to certain toxins — such as insecticides, herbicides and paint thinner — may produce symptoms similar to Reye's syndrome. But these toxins don't cause Reye's syndrome.
Risk Factors for Reye's syndrome:
The following risk factors — usually when they occur together — may lead to Reye's syndrome:
Using aspirin to treat a viral infection such as chickenpox, the flu or an upper respiratory infection.
Having a metabolic condition. This may include a fatty acid oxidation disorder.
Complications for Reye's syndrome:
Most children and teenagers who have Reye's syndrome survive. However, varying degrees of lasting brain damage are possible. Without proper diagnosis and treatment, Reye's syndrome can cause death within a few days.
Preventions for Reye's syndrome
To prevent Reye's syndrome, do not give children or teenagers aspirin. This includes plain aspirin and medicines that contain aspirin. Aspirin has been linked to Reye's syndrome in children and teenagers who have the flu or chickenpox.
Some hospitals and medical facilities screen newborns for fatty acid oxidation disorders to determine which children are at greater risk of developing Reye's syndrome. It's especially important not to give aspirin or medicines that contain aspirin to children with known fatty acid oxidation disorders.
Always check the label before you give your child medicine. This includes products you buy without a prescription and alternative or herbal remedies. Aspirin can show up in some unexpected products such as Alka-Seltzer.
Sometimes aspirin goes by other names, such as:
Acetylsalicylic acid.
Acetylsalicylate.
Salicylic acid.
Salicylate.
For the treatment of fever or pain related to the flu, chickenpox or another viral illness, give your child a safer alternative to aspirin. This may include infants' or children's acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin, others).
There's an exception to the general rule about aspirin. Children and teenagers who have certain chronic diseases, such as Kawasaki disease, may need long-term treatment with medicines that contain aspirin.
If your child needs to take aspirin, make sure your child's vaccines are current. This includes two doses of the chickenpox vaccine and a yearly flu vaccine. Avoiding these two viral illnesses can help prevent Reye's syndrome.
Condition name:Rhabdomyosarcoma
Overview of Rhabdomyosarcoma:
Rhabdomyosarcoma is a rare type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in soft tissue. Soft tissues support and connect organs and other parts of the body. Rhabdomyosarcoma most often starts in muscle tissue.
Although rhabdomyosarcoma can start anywhere in the body, it's more likely to start in the:
Head and neck area.
Urinary system, such as the bladder.
Reproductive system, such as the vagina, uterus and testes.
Arms and legs.
Rhabdomyosarcoma treatment often involves surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy. Treatment depends on where the cancer starts, how large it grows and whether it spreads to other parts of the body.
Research into diagnosis and treatment have greatly improved the outlook for people diagnosed with rhabdomyosarcoma. More and more people are living for years after a rhabdomyosarcoma diagnosis.
There are no home remedies available for Rhabdomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rhabdomyosarcoma :
Signs and symptoms of rhabdomyosarcoma depend on where the cancer starts.
For example, if the cancer is in the head or neck area, symptoms may include:
Headache.
Bleeding in the nose, throat or ears.
Tearing, bulging or swelling of the eyes.
If the cancer is in the urinary or reproductive system, symptoms may include:
A mass or bleeding in the vagina or rectum.
Trouble urinating and blood in the urine.
Trouble with bowel movements.
If the cancer is in the arms or legs, symptoms may include:
Possibly pain in the affected area, if the cancer pushes on nerves or other areas of the body.
Swelling or a lump in the arm or leg.
Causes for Rhabdomyosarcoma :
It's not clear what causes rhabdomyosarcoma. It starts when a soft tissue cell develops changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do.
In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Rhabdomyosarcoma:
Factors that may increase the risk of rhabdomyosarcoma include:
Younger age. Rhabdomyosarcoma most often happens to children younger than 10.
Inherited syndromes. Rarely, rhabdomyosarcoma has been linked to genetic syndromes that are passed from parents to children. These include neurofibromatosis 1, Noonan syndrome, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and Costello syndrome.
There is no way to prevent rhabdomyosarcoma.
Complications for Rhabdomyosarcoma:
Complications of rhabdomyosarcoma and its treatment include:
Cancer that spreads. Rhabdomyosarcoma can spread from where it started to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it might require more-intense treatments. This can make recovery harder. Rhabdomyosarcoma most often spreads to the lungs, lymph nodes and bones.
Long-term side effects. Rhabdomyosarcoma and its treatments can cause many side effects, both short and long term. Your healthcare team can help you manage the side effects that happen during treatment. And the team can give you a list of side effects to watch for in the years after treatment.
There are no preventive measures available for Rhabdomyosarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Rheumatic fever
Overview of Rheumatic fever:
Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that can develop when strep throat or scarlet fever isn't properly treated. Strep throat and scarlet fever are caused by an infection with streptococcus (strep-toe-KOK-us) bacteria.
Rheumatic fever most often affects children ages 5 to 15. But younger children and adults can get it too. Rheumatic fever is rare in the United States and other developed countries.
Rheumatic fever can cause long-lasting heart damage, including heart valve problems and heart failure. Treatment includes medicines to kill the strep bacteria. Other medicines are used to treat pain and prevent complications.
There are no home remedies available for Rheumatic fever in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rheumatic fever :
Rheumatic fever symptoms usually start about 2 to 4 weeks after a strep throat infection. Symptoms are due to swelling, called inflammation, in the heart, joints, skin or central nervous system. There may be few symptoms or several. Symptoms can come and go or change while a person is sick with rheumatic fever.
Rheumatic fever symptoms can include:
Fever.
Joint pain or swelling — most often the knees, ankles, elbows and wrists. Joints may feel hot or tender.
Pain in one joint that travels to another joint.
Chest pain.
Fatigue.
Small, painless bumps beneath the skin.
Flat or slightly raised, painless rash with a ragged edge.
Some people with rheumatic fever develop a condition called Sydenham chorea. Symptoms of this condition include:
Jerky, uncontrollable body movements, most often in the hands, feet and face.
Outbursts of crying or inappropriate laughing.
Causes for Rheumatic fever :
Rheumatic fever can happen after a throat infection from group A streptococcus bacteria, also called strep bacteria. The bacteria cause strep throat and scarlet fever. Improperly treated strep throat or scarlet fever infections cause rheumatic fever.
There's little chance of getting rheumatic fever when strep throat is treated right away with antibiotics. It's important to finish all of the medicine.
Group A strep infections of the skin or other parts of the body rarely cause rheumatic fever.
How a strep infection causes rheumatic fever isn't clear. It may be that the bacteria trick the body's immune system into attacking healthy tissue. This usually happens in the heart, joints, skin and central nervous system. The incorrect immune system reaction causes swelling of joints and tissues. This swelling is called inflammation.
Risk Factors for Rheumatic fever:
Things that may increase the risk of rheumatic fever include:
Genes. Some people have one or more genes that might make them more likely to develop rheumatic fever.
Specific type of strep bacteria. Some strains of strep bacteria are more likely to cause rheumatic fever than others.
Environmental factors. Overcrowding, poor sanitation and other conditions can cause strep bacteria to easily spread among many people. These conditions increase the risk of rheumatic fever.
Complications for Rheumatic fever:
Joint and tissue swelling caused by rheumatic fever can last a few weeks to several months. For some people, the swelling causes long-term complications.
One complication of rheumatic fever is long-lasting heart damage. This is called rheumatic heart disease. Rheumatic heart disease usually occurs years to decades after the original illness.
However, severe rheumatic fever can start to damage the heart valves while a child still has symptoms of the infection. The valve between the two left chambers of the heart is most commonly affected. This valve is called the mitral valve. But other heart valves also may be affected.
Rheumatic fever can cause these types of heart damage:
Narrowing of a heart valve, also called valve stenosis. The valve flaps become thick or stiff and possibly connect together. This decreases blood flow through the valve.
Backward flow of blood across a heart valve. This is called valve regurgitation. It occurs when the valve flaps don't close properly.
Damage to heart muscle. Tissue swelling from rheumatic fever can weaken the heart muscle. This damage may affect the heart's ability to pump.
Heart failure. Heart damage from rheumatic fever also may cause heart failure later in life.
Irregular heartbeats. Damage to the heart valves or other areas of the heart can lead to irregular and very fast heartbeats. This also is known as atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Preventions for Rheumatic fever
The best way to prevent rheumatic fever is to treat strep throat infections or scarlet fever right away. It's also important to finish all of the prescribed antibiotics as directed.
Condition name:Rheumatoid arthritis
Overview of Rheumatoid arthritis:
Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory disorder that can affect more than just your joints. In some people, the condition can damage a wide variety of body systems, including the skin, eyes, lungs, heart and blood vessels.
An autoimmune disorder, rheumatoid arthritis occurs when your immune system mistakenly attacks your own body's tissues.
Unlike the wear-and-tear damage of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis affects the lining of your joints, causing a painful swelling that can eventually result in bone erosion and joint deformity.
The inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis is what can damage other parts of the body as well. While new types of medications have improved treatment options dramatically, severe rheumatoid arthritis can still cause physical disabilities.
There are no home remedies available for Rheumatoid arthritis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rheumatoid arthritis :
Signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis may include:
Tender, warm, swollen joints
Joint stiffness that is usually worse in the mornings and after inactivity
Fatigue, fever and loss of appetite
Early rheumatoid arthritis tends to affect your smaller joints first — particularly the joints that attach your fingers to your hands and your toes to your feet.
As the disease progresses, symptoms often spread to the wrists, knees, ankles, elbows, hips and shoulders. In most cases, symptoms occur in the same joints on both sides of your body.
About 40% of people who have rheumatoid arthritis also experience signs and symptoms that don't involve the joints. Areas that may be affected include:
Skin
Eyes
Lungs
Heart
Kidneys
Salivary glands
Nerve tissue
Bone marrow
Blood vessels
Rheumatoid arthritis signs and symptoms may vary in severity and may even come and go. Periods of increased disease activity, called flares, alternate with periods of relative remission — when the swelling and pain fade or disappear. Over time, rheumatoid arthritis can cause joints to deform and shift out of place.
Causes for Rheumatoid arthritis :
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease. Normally, your immune system helps protect your body from infection and disease. In rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system attacks healthy tissue in your joints. It can also cause medical problems with your heart, lungs, nerves, eyes and skin.
Doctors don't know what starts this process, although a genetic component appears likely. While your genes don't actually cause rheumatoid arthritis, they can make you more likely to react to environmental factors — such as infection with certain viruses and bacteria — that may trigger the disease.
Risk Factors for Rheumatoid arthritis:
Factors that may increase your risk of rheumatoid arthritis include:
Your sex. Women are more likely than men to develop rheumatoid arthritis.
Age. Rheumatoid arthritis can occur at any age, but it most commonly begins in middle age.
Family history. If a member of your family has rheumatoid arthritis, you may have an increased risk of the disease.
Smoking. Cigarette smoking increases your risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis, particularly if you have a genetic predisposition for developing the disease. Smoking also appears to be associated with greater disease severity.
Excess weight. People who are overweight appear to be at a somewhat higher risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis.
Complications for Rheumatoid arthritis:
Rheumatoid arthritis increases your risk of developing:
Osteoporosis. Rheumatoid arthritis itself, along with some medications used for treating rheumatoid arthritis, can increase your risk of osteoporosis — a condition that weakens your bones and makes them more prone to fracture.
Rheumatoid nodules. These firm bumps of tissue most commonly form around pressure points, such as the elbows. However, these nodules can form anywhere in the body, including the heart and lungs.
Dry eyes and mouth. People who have rheumatoid arthritis are much more likely to develop Sjogren's syndrome, a disorder that decreases the amount of moisture in the eyes and mouth.
Infections. Rheumatoid arthritis itself and many of the medications used to combat it can impair the immune system, leading to increased infections. Protect yourself with vaccinations to prevent diseases such as influenza, pneumonia, shingles and COVID-19.
Abnormal body composition. The proportion of fat to lean mass is often higher in people who have rheumatoid arthritis, even in those who have a normal body mass index (BMI).
Carpal tunnel syndrome. If rheumatoid arthritis affects your wrists, the inflammation can compress the nerve that serves most of your hand and fingers.
Heart problems. Rheumatoid arthritis can increase your risk of hardened and blocked arteries, as well as inflammation of the sac that encloses your heart.
Lung disease. People with rheumatoid arthritis have an increased risk of inflammation and scarring of the lung tissues, which can lead to progressive shortness of breath.
Lymphoma. Rheumatoid arthritis increases the risk of lymphoma, a group of blood cancers that develop in the lymph system.
There are no preventive measures available for Rheumatoid arthritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Rosacea
Overview of Rosacea:
Rosacea (roe-ZAY-she-uh) is a common skin condition that causes flushing or long-term redness on your face. It also may cause enlarged blood vessels and small, pus-filled bumps. Some symptoms may flare for weeks to months and then go away for a while.
Rosacea can be mistaken for acne, dermatitis or other skin problems.
There's no cure for rosacea. But you may be able to control it with medicine, gentle skin care and avoiding things that cause flare-ups.
There are no home remedies available for Rosacea in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rosacea :
Symptoms of rosacea include:
Facial redness and flushing. Rosacea can make your face flush more easily. Over time, you may notice that your face stays red. Depending on skin color, redness may be subtle or look more pink or purple.
Visible veins. Small blood vessels of the nose and cheeks break and become larger. These are also called spider veins. They may be subtle and hard to see, depending on skin color.
Swollen bumps. Many people with rosacea develop pimples on the face that look like acne. These bumps sometimes contain pus. They also may appear on the chest and back.
Burning sensation. The skin of the affected area may feel hot and tender.
Eye problems. Many people with rosacea also have dry, irritated, swollen eyes and eyelids. This is known as ocular rosacea. Eye symptoms may show up before, after or at the same time as skin symptoms.
Enlarged nose. Over time, rosacea can thicken the skin on the nose, causing the nose to look bigger. This condition also is called rhinophyma. It occurs more often in men than in women.
Causes for Rosacea :
The cause of rosacea is not known. It could be due to genetics, an overactive immune system or things in your daily life. Rosacea is not caused by poor hygiene, and you can't catch it from other people.
Flare-ups might be brought on by:
Sun or wind.
Hot drinks.
Spicy foods.
Alcohol.
Very hot and cold temperatures.
Emotional stress.
Exercise.
Drugs that dilate blood vessels, including some blood pressure medicines.
Some cosmetic, skin and hair care products.
Risk Factors for Rosacea:
Anyone can develop rosacea. But you may be more likely to develop it if you:
Have skin that burns easily in the sun.
Are between the ages of 30 to 50 years.
Have a history of smoking.
Have a family member with rosacea.
There are no Complications available for Rosacea in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Rosacea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Rotator cuff injury
Overview of Rotator cuff injury:
The rotator cuff is a group of muscles and tendons that surround the shoulder joint, keeping the head of the upper arm bone firmly within the shallow socket of the shoulder. A rotator cuff injury can cause a dull ache in the shoulder that worsens at night.
Rotator cuff injuries are common and increase with age. These injuries may occur earlier in people who have jobs that require repeatedly performing overhead motions, such as painters and carpenters.
Physical therapy exercises can improve flexibility and strength of the muscles surrounding the shoulder joint. For many people with rotator cuff problems, these exercises are all that's needed to manage their symptoms.
Sometimes, rotator cuff tears may occur from a single injury. In those circumstances, people should seek medical advice quickly because they might need surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Rotator cuff injury in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rotator cuff injury :
The pain associated with a rotator cuff injury may:
Be described as a dull ache deep in the shoulder
Disturb sleep
Make it difficult to comb your hair or reach behind your back
Be accompanied by arm weakness
Some rotator cuff injuries don't cause pain.
Causes for Rotator cuff injury :
Rotator cuff injuries are most often caused by progressive wear and tear of the tendon tissue over time. Repetitive overhead activity or prolonged bouts of heavy lifting can irritate or damage the tendon. The rotator cuff can also be injured in a single incident during falls or accidents.
Risk Factors for Rotator cuff injury:
The following factors may increase the risk of having a rotator cuff injury:
Age. The risk of a rotator cuff injury increases with age. Rotator cuff tears are most common in people older than 60.
Some occupations. Jobs that require repetitive overhead arm motions, such as carpentry or house painting, can damage the rotator cuff over time.
Certain sports. Some types of rotator cuff injuries are more common in people who participate in sports like baseball, tennis and weight-lifting.
Family history. There may be a genetic component involved with rotator cuff injuries as they appear to occur more commonly in certain families.
Complications for Rotator cuff injury:
Without treatment, rotator cuff problems may lead to permanent loss of motion or weakness of the shoulder joint.
There are no preventive measures available for Rotator cuff injury in the knowledge baseCondition name:Rumination syndrome
Overview of Rumination syndrome:
Rumination syndrome is a condition in which someone repeatedly regurgitates undigested or partially digested food from the stomach. The regurgitated food is then chewed again and swallowed or spit out. People with rumination syndrome don't try to regurgitate food. It happens without any effort.
Because the food hasn't yet been digested, it reportedly tastes like regular food and isn't acidic like vomit. Rumination typically happens at every meal, soon after eating.
It's not clear how many people have this condition. Treatment may include behavioral therapy or medicine. Behavioral therapy typically involves teaching people to breathe from the diaphragm.
There are no home remedies available for Rumination syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Rumination syndrome :
Symptoms of rumination syndrome include:
Effortless regurgitation, typically within minutes of eating.
Belly pain or pressure relieved by regurgitation.
A feeling of fullness.
Nausea.
Losing weight without trying.
Rumination syndrome isn't usually associated with retching.
Causes for Rumination syndrome :
The exact cause of rumination syndrome isn't clear. But it appears to be caused by an increase in abdominal pressure.
Rumination syndrome is often confused with bulimia nervosa, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and gastroparesis. Some people have rumination syndrome linked to a rectal evacuation disorder. A rectal evacuation issue involves pelvic floor muscles that don't work together correctly, which leads to ongoing constipation.
The condition has long been known to happen in infants and people with developmental disabilities. It's now clear that the condition isn't related to age, as it can happen in children, teens and adults. Rumination syndrome is more likely to happen in people with anxiety, depression or other psychiatric disorders.
There are no Risk Factors available for Rumination syndrome in the knowledge baseComplications for Rumination syndrome:
Complications of rumination syndrome may include:
Unhealthy weight loss.
Malnutrition.
Worn teeth.
Bad breath.
Embarrassment.
Social isolation.
Untreated, rumination syndrome can damage the tube between the mouth and stomach, called the esophagus.
There are no preventive measures available for Rumination syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ruptured spleen
Overview of Ruptured spleen:
A ruptured spleen is a medical emergency that occurs as a result of a break in your spleen's surface. Your spleen, situated just under your rib cage on your left side, helps your body fight infection and filter old blood cells from your bloodstream.
A forceful blow to your stomach — during a sporting accident, a fistfight or a car crash, for example — is the usual cause of a ruptured spleen. If you have an enlarged spleen, a less forceful trauma might cause rupture. Without emergency treatment, the internal bleeding caused by a ruptured spleen can be life-threatening.
Some people with ruptured spleens need emergency surgery. Others can be treated with several days of hospital care.
There are no home remedies available for Ruptured spleen in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ruptured spleen :
Signs and symptoms of a ruptured spleen include:
Pain in the upper left stomach.
Tenderness when you touch the upper left stomach.
Left shoulder pain.
Confusion, lightheadedness or dizziness.
Causes for Ruptured spleen :
A spleen can rupture due to:
Injury to the left side of the body. A ruptured spleen is typically caused by a blow to the left upper stomach or the left lower chest, such as might happen during sporting accidents, fistfights and car crashes. An injured spleen can rupture soon after the stomach trauma or, in some cases, days or weeks after the injury.
An enlarged spleen. Your spleen can become enlarged when blood cells accumulate in the spleen. An enlarged spleen can be caused by various underlying problems, such as mononucleosis and other infections, liver disease, and blood cancers.
Risk Factors for Ruptured spleen:
If the spleen is already enlarged due to infection or another cause, there is increased risk that the spleen might rupture. Contact sports that involve blows to the chest also increase the risk of a ruptured spleen.
Complications for Ruptured spleen:
A ruptured spleen can cause life-threatening bleeding into your stomach cavity.
Preventions for Ruptured spleen
If you've been diagnosed with an enlarged spleen, ask your health care provider whether you need to avoid activities for several weeks that could cause it to rupture. These might include contact sports, heavy lifting and other activities that increase the risk of stomach trauma.
Condition name:Sacral dimple
Overview of Sacral dimple:
A sacral dimple is an indentation or pit in the skin on the lower back that is present at birth in some babies. It's usually just above the crease between the buttocks. Most sacral dimples are harmless and don't need treatment.
A sacral dimple can be a sign of a serious spinal problem in a newborn if the dimple is large or appears near a tuft of hair, skin tag, lump or discolored area. In these instances, your child's health care provider may recommend an imaging test. If a spinal problem is found, treatment depends on the underlying cause.
There are no home remedies available for Sacral dimple in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sacral dimple :
A sacral dimple is an indentation or pit in the skin on the lower back. It's usually located just above the crease between the buttocks.
Causes for Sacral dimple :
There are no known causes for a sacral dimple. It is a congenital condition, meaning it's present at birth.
There are no Risk Factors available for Sacral dimple in the knowledge baseComplications for Sacral dimple:
Rarely, sacral dimples are associated with a serious underlying abnormality of the spine or spinal cord. Examples include:
Spina bifida. A very mild form of this condition, called spina bifida occulta, occurs when the spine doesn't close properly around the spinal cord, but the cord remains within the spinal canal. In most cases, spina bifida occulta causes no symptoms and doesn't need treatment.
Tethered cord syndrome. The spinal cord normally hangs freely within the spinal canal. Tethered cord syndrome is a disorder that occurs when tissue attached to the spinal cord limits its movements. Signs and symptoms may include weakness or numbness in the legs and bladder or bowel incontinence.
The risks of these spinal problems increase if the sacral dimple is accompanied by a nearby tuft of hair, skin tag or lump, and certain types of skin discoloration
There are no preventive measures available for Sacral dimple in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sacroiliitis
Overview of Sacroiliitis:
Sacroiliitis (say-kroe-il-e-I-tis) is a painful condition that affects one or both sacroiliac joints. These joints sit where the lower spine and pelvis meet. Sacroiliitis can cause pain and stiffness in the buttocks or lower back, and the pain might go down one or both legs. Standing or sitting for a long time or climbing stairs can make the pain worse.
Sacroiliitis can be hard to diagnose. It can be mistaken for other causes of low back pain. It's been linked to a group of diseases that cause inflammatory arthritis of the spine. Treatment might involve physical therapy and medicines.
Home Remedies for Sacroiliitis:
Home treatments for sacroiliitis pain include:
Pain relievers you can get without a prescription. Medicines such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) may help relieve the pain of sacroiliitis. Some of these medicines can cause stomach upset, or kidney or liver problems.
Rest. Changing or not doing the activities that worsen pain might help. Using good posture is important.
Ice and heat. Switching between ice and heat might help relieve sacroiliac pain.
Symptoms for Sacroiliitis :
The pain of sacroiliitis most often occurs in the buttocks and lower back. It also can affect the legs, groin and even the feet. The pain can improve with movement. The following can make sacroiliitis pain worse:
Sleeping or sitting for a long time.
Standing a long time.
Having more weight on one leg than the other.
Stair climbing.
Running.
Taking large steps when moving forward.
Causes for Sacroiliitis :
Causes for sacroiliac joint issues include:
Injury. A sudden impact, such as a motor vehicle accident or a fall, can damage the sacroiliac joints.
Arthritis. Wear-and-tear arthritis, also known as osteoarthritis, can occur in sacroiliac joints. So can a type of arthritis that affects the spine, known as ankylosing spondylitis.
Pregnancy. The sacroiliac joints loosen and stretch for childbirth. The added weight and changed way of walking during pregnancy can stress these joints.
Infection. Rarely, a sacroiliac joint can become infected.
Risk Factors for Sacroiliitis:
Certain conditions may increase the risk of swelling in the sacroiliac joints.
Inflammatory forms of arthritis, such as ankylosing spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis, may increase the risk of sacroiliitis. Inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, also may increase the risk.
Changes that happen to the body during pregnancy and childbirth also can stress the sacroiliac joints and cause pain and swelling.
Complications for Sacroiliitis:
Sacroiliitis can cause difficulty with certain actions, such as bending, lifting, staying in one position and rising from being seated. The ongoing pain of sacroiliitis can lead to depression and loss of sleep.
There are no preventive measures available for Sacroiliitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Salivary gland tumors
Overview of Salivary gland tumors:
Salivary gland tumors are growths of cells that start in the salivary glands. Salivary gland tumors are rare.
The salivary glands make saliva. Saliva aids in digestion, keeps the mouth moist and supports healthy teeth. There are three pairs of major salivary glands under and behind the jaw. These are the parotid, sublingual and submandibular glands. Many other tiny salivary glands are in the lips, inside the cheeks, and throughout the mouth and throat.
Salivary gland tumors can happen in any salivary gland. Most salivary gland tumors occur in the parotid gland. Of these, most aren't cancer. For every five parotid gland tumors, on average, only one is found to be cancerous.
Treatment for salivary gland tumors is usually with surgery to remove the tumor. People with salivary gland cancers may need additional treatments.
Home Remedies for Salivary gland tumors:
Coping with dry mouth
People with salivary gland tumors that are cancerous may need to have radiation therapy. One side effect of radiation therapy to the head and neck area is having a very dry mouth, called xerostomia. Having a dry mouth can cause discomfort. It can lead to frequent infections in your mouth, cavities and problems with your teeth. Dry mouth also can make eating, swallowing and speaking difficult.
You may find some relief from dry mouth and its complications if you:
Avoid acidic or spicy foods and drinks. Choose foods and drinks that won't irritate your mouth. Avoid caffeinated and alcoholic beverages.
Brush your teeth several times each day. Use a soft-bristled toothbrush and gently brush your teeth several times each day. Tell your healthcare professional if your mouth becomes too sensitive to tolerate gentle brushing.
Choose moist foods. Avoid dry foods. Moisten dry food with sauce, gravy, broth, butter or milk.
Keep your mouth moistened with water or sugarless candies. Drink water throughout the day to keep your mouth moistened. Also try sugarless gum or sugarless candies to stimulate your mouth to produce saliva.
Rinse your mouth with warm salt water after meals. Make a mild solution of warm water and salt. Rinse your mouth with this solution after each meal.
Tell your healthcare professional if you have dry mouth. Treatments may help you cope with more-severe symptoms of dry mouth. You also may be referred to a dietitian who can help you find foods that are easier to eat if you're experiencing dry mouth.
Symptoms for Salivary gland tumors :
Signs and symptoms of a salivary gland tumor may include:
A lump or swelling on or near the jaw or in the neck or mouth.
Muscle weakness on one side of the face.
Numbness in part of the face.
Ongoing pain near a salivary gland.
Trouble opening the mouth widely.
Trouble swallowing.
Causes for Salivary gland tumors :
The cause of many salivary gland tumors isn't known. Healthcare professionals have identified some things that raise the risk of salivary gland tumors. These include smoking and radiation therapy for cancer. Not everyone with a salivary gland tumor has these risk factors, though. More research is needed to find out exactly what causes these tumors.
Salivary gland tumors happen when cells in a salivary gland develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions also tell the cells to die at a set time. In tumor cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the tumor cells to make many more cells quickly. Tumor cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
Sometimes the changes in the DNA turn the cells into cancer cells. Cancer cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Risk Factors for Salivary gland tumors:
Factors that may increase the risk of salivary gland tumors include:
Older age. Though salivary gland tumors can happen at any age, they most often happen in older adults.
Radiation exposure. Radiation treatments for cancer, such as radiation used to treat head and neck cancers, may increase the risk of salivary gland tumors.
Smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco is shown to increase the risk of salivary gland tumors.
Viral infections. People who have had viral infections such as Epstein-Barr virus, human immunodeficiency virus and human papillomavirus may have a higher risk of salivary gland tumors.
Workplace exposure to certain substances. People who work with certain substances may have an increased risk of salivary gland tumors. Examples of industries associated with an increased risk include those that involve rubber manufacturing and nickel.
There are no Complications available for Salivary gland tumors in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Salivary gland tumors in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sarcoidosis
Overview of Sarcoidosis:
Sarcoidosis is a disease characterized by the growth of tiny collections of inflammatory cells (granulomas) in any part of your body — most commonly the lungs and lymph nodes. But it can also affect the eyes, skin, heart and other organs.
The cause of sarcoidosis is unknown, but experts think it results from the body's immune system responding to an unknown substance. Some research suggests that infectious agents, chemicals, dust and a potential abnormal reaction to the body's own proteins (self-proteins) could be responsible for the formation of granulomas in people who are genetically predisposed.
There is no cure for sarcoidosis, but most people do very well with no treatment or only modest treatment. In some cases, sarcoidosis goes away on its own. However, sarcoidosis may last for years and may cause organ damage.
Home Remedies for Sarcoidosis:
In addition to treatment, these self-care tips can help:
Take your medication as prescribed. Even if you start to feel better, don't stop taking your medication without talking with your doctor. Keep all follow-up appointments and ongoing monitoring. Let your doctor know if you have new symptoms.
Make healthy lifestyle choices. These can include eating a healthy diet, maintaining a healthy weight, managing stress and getting adequate sleep.
Participate in regular physical activity. Engaging in regular physical exercise can improve mood, strengthen muscles and help reduce fatigue that can interfere with your daily activities.
Symptoms for Sarcoidosis :
Signs and symptoms of sarcoidosis vary depending on which organs are affected. Sarcoidosis sometimes develops gradually and produces symptoms that last for years. Other times, symptoms appear suddenly and then disappear just as quickly. Many people with sarcoidosis have no symptoms, so the disease may be discovered only when a chest X-ray is done for another reason.
Causes for Sarcoidosis :
Doctors don't know the exact cause of sarcoidosis. Some people appear to have a genetic predisposition to develop the disease, which may be triggered by bacteria, viruses, dust or chemicals.
This triggers an overreaction of your immune system, and immune cells begin to collect in a pattern of inflammation called granulomas. As granulomas build up in an organ, the function of that organ can be affected.
Risk Factors for Sarcoidosis:
While anyone can develop sarcoidosis, factors that may increase your risk include:
Age and sex. Sarcoidosis can occur at any age, but often occurs between the ages of 20 and 60 years. Women are slightly more likely to develop the disease.
Race. People of African descent and those of Northern European descent have a higher incidence of sarcoidosis. African-Americans are more likely to have involvement of other organs along with the lungs.
Family history. If someone in your family has had sarcoidosis, you're more likely to develop the disease.
Complications for Sarcoidosis:
Sometimes sarcoidosis causes long-term problems.
Lungs. Untreated pulmonary sarcoidosis can lead to permanent scarring in your lungs (pulmonary fibrosis), making it difficult to breathe and sometimes causing pulmonary hypertension.
Eyes. Inflammation can affect almost any part of your eye and may cause damage to the retina, which can eventually cause blindness. Rarely, sarcoidosis also can cause cataracts and glaucoma.
Kidneys. Sarcoidosis can affect how your body handles calcium, which can lead to kidney stones and reduce kidney function. Rarely, this can lead to kidney failure.
Heart. Cardiac sarcoidosis results in granulomas in your heart that can disrupt heart rhythm, blood flow and normal heart function. In rare instances, this may lead to death.
Nervous system. A small number of people with sarcoidosis develop problems related to the central nervous system when granulomas form in the brain and spinal cord. Inflammation in the facial nerves, for example, can cause facial paralysis.
There are no preventive measures available for Sarcoidosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sarcoma
Overview of Sarcoma:
Sarcoma is a type of cancer that can occur in various locations in your body.
Sarcoma is the general term for a broad group of cancers that begin in the bones and in the soft (also called connective) tissues (soft tissue sarcoma). Soft tissue sarcoma forms in the tissues that connect, support and surround other body structures. This includes muscle, fat, blood vessels, nerves, tendons and the lining of your joints.
There are more than 70 types of sarcoma. Treatment for sarcoma varies depending on sarcoma type, location and other factors.
There are no home remedies available for Sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sarcoma :
Signs and symptoms of sarcoma include:
A lump that can be felt through the skin that may or may not be painful
Bone pain
A broken bone that happens unexpectedly, such as with a minor injury or no injury at all
Abdominal pain
Weight loss
Causes for Sarcoma :
It's not clear what causes most sarcomas.
In general, cancer forms when changes (mutations) happen in the DNA within cells. The DNA inside a cell is packaged into a large number of individual genes, each of which contains a set of instructions telling the cell what functions to perform, as well as how to grow and divide.
Mutations might tell cells to grow and divide uncontrollably and to continue living when normal cells would die. If this happens, the accumulating abnormal cells can form a tumor. Cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Sarcoma:
Factors that can increase the risk of sarcoma include:
Inherited syndromes. Some syndromes that increase the risk of cancer can be passed from parents to children. Examples of syndromes that increase the risk of sarcoma include familial retinoblastoma and neurofibromatosis type 1.
Radiation therapy for cancer. Radiation treatment for cancer increases the risk of developing a sarcoma later.
Chronic swelling (lymphedema). Lymphedema is swelling caused by a backup of lymph fluid that occurs when the lymphatic system is blocked or damaged. It increases the risk of a type of sarcoma called angiosarcoma.
Exposure to chemicals. Certain chemicals, such as some industrial chemicals and herbicides, can increase the risk of sarcoma that affects the liver.
Exposure to viruses. The virus called human herpesvirus 8 can increase the risk of a type of sarcoma called Kaposi's sarcoma in people with weakened immune systems.
There are no Complications available for Sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Scabies
Overview of Scabies:
Scabies is an itchy skin rash caused by a tiny burrowing mite called Sarcoptes scabiei. Intense itching occurs in the area where the mite burrows. The need to scratch may be stronger at night.
Scabies is contagious and can spread quickly through close person-to-person contact in a family, child care group, school class, nursing home or prison. Because scabies spreads so easily, health care providers often recommend treating the entire family or any close contacts.
Scabies is easily treated. Medicated skin creams or pills kill the mites that cause scabies and their eggs. But itching may not stop for many weeks after treatment.
Home Remedies for Scabies:
Your skin might still itch for several weeks after scabies treatment. Taking oral allergy pills or using nonprescription skin creams, such as calamine lotion, may help ease itching.
Symptoms for Scabies :
Scabies symptoms include:
Itching, often severe and usually worse at night
Thin, wavy tunnels made up of tiny blisters or bumps on the skin
Scabies is often found in the skin folds. But scabies can appear on many parts of the body. In adults and older children, scabies is most often found:
Between the fingers and toes
In the armpits
Around the waist
Along the insides of the wrists
On the inner elbows
On the soles of the feet
On the chest
Around the nipples
Around the belly button
Around the genitals
In the groin area
On the buttocks
In infants and young children, common sites of scabies usually include the:
Fingers
Face, scalp and neck
Palms of the hands
Soles of the feet
If you've had scabies before, symptoms may start within a few days of exposure. If you've never had scabies, it can take as long as six weeks for symptoms to start. You can still spread scabies even if you don't have any symptoms yet.
Causes for Scabies :
Scabies is caused by a tiny, eight-legged mite. The female mite burrows just under the skin and makes a tunnel where it lays eggs.
The eggs hatch, and the mite larvae travel to the surface of the skin, where they mature. These mites can then spread to other areas of the skin or to the skin of other people. Itching is caused by the body's allergic reaction to the mites, their eggs and their waste.
Close skin-to-skin contact and, less often, sharing clothing or bedding with a person who has scabies can spread the mites.
Pets don't spread scabies to humans. The scabies mites that affect animals don't survive or reproduce in people.
However, coming in contact with an animal that has scabies may cause brief itching if the mite gets under the skin. But within a few days, the mite will die. So treatment isn't needed.
There are no Risk Factors available for Scabies in the knowledge baseComplications for Scabies:
Scratching too much can break your skin and cause an infection, such as impetigo. Impetigo is an infection on the skin's surface that's caused most often by staph bacteria (staphylococci) or sometimes by strep bacteria (streptococci).
A more severe type of scabies, called crusted scabies, may affect certain people, including:
Young children
People with developmental disabilities
People with weakened immune systems, such as those with HIV or lymphoma, or people who have had organ transplants
People who are very sick, such as people in hospitals or nursing facilities
Older people in nursing homes
Crusted scabies makes the skin crusty and scaly, and affects large areas of the body. It's very contagious and can be hard to treat. Quick treatment with both a prescription pill and a skin cream is needed.
Typically, someone with scabies has about 10 to 15 mites. But someone with crusted scabies may have millions of mites. Yet itching may not occur or may be mild.
Preventions for Scabies
To prevent scabies from coming back and to keep the mites from spreading to other people, take these steps:
Wash all clothes and linen. Heat kills the mites and their eggs. Use hot, soapy water to wash all clothing, towels and bedding used in the last three days before beginning treatment. Dry with high heat. Dry-clean items you can't wash at home.
Starve the mites. Place items you can't wash in sealed plastic bags and leave them in an out-of-the-way place, such as your garage, for a week. Mites die after a few days without food.
Clean and vacuum. It's a good idea to clean your home to prevent scabies from spreading. This is especially true for people with crusted scabies. Vacuum furniture, carpets and floors to remove scales and crusts that may have scabies mites.
Condition name:Schizoaffective disorder
Overview of Schizoaffective disorder:
Schizoaffective disorder is a mental health condition that is marked by a mix of schizophrenia symptoms, such as hallucinations and delusions, and mood disorder symptoms, such as depression, mania and a milder form of mania called hypomania. Hallucinations involve seeing things or hearing voices that others don't observe. Delusions involve believing things that are not real or not true.
The two types of schizoaffective disorder — both of which include some symptoms of schizophrenia — are:
Bipolar type, which includes bouts of hypomania or mania and sometimes major depression.
Depressive type, which includes only major depressive bouts.
Schizoaffective disorder may affect people differently.
Schizoaffective disorder changes how people think, feel and act. When it isn't treated, the condition can make it hard to function at work or school or in social settings. It also can cause loneliness. People with schizoaffective disorder may need help and support to live their daily lives. Treatment can help manage symptoms and make quality of life better.
There are no home remedies available for Schizoaffective disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schizoaffective disorder :
Schizoaffective disorder symptoms may vary from person to person. People with the condition have psychotic symptoms, such as hallucinations and delusions. They also can have symptoms of a mood disorder. This type of schizophrenia could be the bipolar type, which features bouts of mania and sometimes depression. Or it could be the depressive type, which features bouts of depression.
How schizoaffective disorder starts and how it affects people may vary. But defining features include a major bout of depressed or manic mood and at least a two-week period of psychotic symptoms when mood symptoms are not present.
Symptoms of schizoaffective disorder depend on the type — bipolar or depressive. Symptoms may include:
Delusions — having false, fixed beliefs, despite facts showing that they're not true.
Hallucinations, such as hearing voices or seeing things that others don't observe.
Disorganized thinking and speech.
Bizarre or unusual behavior.
Symptoms of depression, such as feeling empty, sad or worthless.
Periods of manic mood, with more energy and less need for sleep over several days, and behaviors that are out of character.
Having a hard time functioning at work or school or in social situations.
Problems managing personal care, such as not looking clean and not taking care in how one looks.
Causes for Schizoaffective disorder :
While it isn't known what causes schizoaffective disorder, genes that are passed down through families likely play a part.
Risk Factors for Schizoaffective disorder:
Factors that raise the risk of developing schizoaffective disorder include:
Having a close blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, who has schizoaffective disorder, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.
Stressful events that may cause symptoms.
Taking mind-altering drugs, which may make symptoms worse when an underlying problem is present.
Complications for Schizoaffective disorder:
People with schizoaffective disorder are at a greater risk of:
Suicide, suicide attempts and thoughts about suicide.
Social isolation.
Conflicts with others and within families.
Unemployment.
Anxiety disorders.
Alcohol or other substance misuse.
Health conditions, such as heart disease, stroke and obesity.
Being poor and not having a home.
Being assaulted.
Aggressive episodes, though people with schizoaffective disorder are more likely to be assaulted rather than assault others.
There are no preventive measures available for Schizoaffective disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Schizoid personality disorder
Overview of Schizoid personality disorder:
Schizoid personality disorder is a condition where a person shows very little, if any, interest and ability to form relationships with other people. It's very hard for the person to express a full range of emotions.
If you have schizoid personality disorder, you may be seen as keeping to yourself or rejecting others. You may not be interested in or able to form close friendships or romantic relationships. Because you do not tend to show emotion, it may appear that you do not care about others or what's going on around you.
Schizoid personality disorder is less common than other personality disorders, but it's much more common than schizophrenia. The cause is not known. Some symptoms of schizoid personality disorder are similar to autism spectrum disorders, other personality disorders — especially avoidant personality disorder — and early symptoms of schizophrenia.
Talk therapy, also called psychotherapy, can help those who know they need to improve relationships with others. But it's common to feel unsure about change. Medicines are mainly used to treat mental health conditions that occur along with schizoid personality disorder, rather than the disorder itself.
There are no home remedies available for Schizoid personality disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schizoid personality disorder :
If you have schizoid personality disorder, it's likely that you:
Want to be alone and do activities alone.
Do not want or enjoy close relationships.
Feel little if any desire for sexual relationships.
Take pleasure in few activities, if any.
Find it hard to express your emotions and react.
May lack humor or not be interested in others. Or you may be cold toward others.
May lack the drive that makes you want to reach goals.
Do not react to praise or criticism from others.
People may view you as odd or unusual.
Schizoid personality disorder most often begins when a person is a young adult. But some symptoms might be noticed during childhood. These symptoms may make it hard to do well in school, at work, in social situations or in other areas of life. But the person may do well if the job can be done by mostly working alone.
Causes for Schizoid personality disorder :
Personality is the blend of thoughts, emotions and behaviors that makes you special. It's the way you view, understand and relate to the outside world. It's also how you see yourself. Personality forms when you're a child. It's shaped through a blend of your surroundings and genes passed down from your parents.
Children typically learn over time to properly understand social cues and take action. What causes schizoid personality disorder to happen is not known. But a blend of your surroundings and genes passed down to you may play a role in developing the disorder.
Risk Factors for Schizoid personality disorder:
Factors that raise your risk of schizoid personality disorder include:
Having a parent or another relative who has schizoid personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder or schizophrenia.
Having a parent who was cold, did not properly care for you and did not take action to help you emotionally.
Complications for Schizoid personality disorder:
People with schizoid personality disorder are at higher risk of:
Schizotypal personality disorder or schizophrenia.
Other personality disorders.
Major depression.
Anxiety disorders.
There are no preventive measures available for Schizoid personality disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Schizophrenia
Overview of Schizophrenia:
Schizophrenia is a serious mental health condition that affects how people think, feel and behave. It may result in a mix of hallucinations, delusions, and disorganized thinking and behavior. Hallucinations involve seeing things or hearing voices that aren't observed by others. Delusions involve firm beliefs about things that are not true. People with schizophrenia can seem to lose touch with reality, which can make daily living very hard.
People with schizophrenia need lifelong treatment. This includes medicine, talk therapy and help in learning how to manage daily life activities.
Because many people with schizophrenia don't know they have a mental health condition and may not believe they need treatment, many research studies have examined the results of untreated psychosis. People who have psychosis that is not treated often have more-severe symptoms, more stays in a hospital, poorer thinking and processing skills and social outcomes, injuries, and even death. On the other hand, early treatment often helps control symptoms before serious complications arise, making the long-term outlook better.
There are no home remedies available for Schizophrenia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schizophrenia :
Schizophrenia involves a range of problems in how people think, feel and behave. Symptoms may include:
Delusions. This is when people believe in things that aren't real or true. For example, people with schizophrenia could think that they're being harmed or harassed when they aren't. They could think that they're the target for certain gestures or comments when they aren't. They may think they're very famous or have great ability when that's not the case. Or they could feel that a major disaster is about to occur when that's not true. Most people with schizophrenia have delusions.
Hallucinations. These usually involve seeing or hearing things that other people don't observe. For people with schizophrenia, these things seem real. Hallucinations can occur with any of the senses, but hearing voices is most common.
Disorganized speech and thinking. Disorganized speech causes disorganized thinking. It can be hard for people with schizophrenia to talk with other people. The answers people with schizophrenia give to questions may not be related to what's being asked. Or questions may not be answered fully. Rarely, speech may include putting together unrelated words in a way that can't be understood. Sometimes this is called word salad.
Extremely disorganized or unusual motor behavior. This may show in several ways, from childlike silliness to being agitated for no reason. Behavior isn't focused on a goal, so it's hard to do tasks. People with schizophrenia may not want to follow instructions. They may move in ways that are not typical or not appropriate to the social setting. Or they may not move much or respond at all.
Negative symptoms. People with schizophrenia may not be able to function in the way they could before their illness started. For example, they may not bathe, make eye contact or show emotions. They may speak in a monotone voice and not be able to feel pleasure. Also, they may lose interest in everyday activities, socially withdraw and have a hard time planning ahead.
Symptoms can vary in type and how severe they are. At times, symptoms may get better or worse. Some symptoms may be present at all times.
People with schizophrenia usually are diagnosed in the late teen years to early 30s. In men, schizophrenia symptoms usually start in the late teens to early 20s. In women, symptoms usually begin in the late 20s to early 30s. There also is a group of people — usually women — who are diagnosed later in life. It isn't common for children to be diagnosed with schizophrenia.
Causes for Schizophrenia :
It isn't known what causes schizophrenia. But researchers believe that a mix of genetics, brain chemistry and environment can play a part.
Changes in certain naturally occurring brain chemicals, including neurotransmitters called dopamine and glutamate, may play a part in schizophrenia. Neuroimaging studies show changes in the brain structure and central nervous systems of people with schizophrenia. While researchers haven't yet been able to apply these findings to new treatments, the findings show that schizophrenia is a brain disease.
Risk Factors for Schizophrenia:
Although the cause of schizophrenia is not known, these factors seem to make schizophrenia more likely:
A family history of schizophrenia.
Life experiences, such as living in poverty, stress or danger.
Some pregnancy and birth issues, such as not getting enough nutrition before or after birth, low birth weight, or exposure to toxins or viruses before birth that may affect brain development.
Taking mind-altering — also called psychoactive or psychotropic — drugs as a teen or young adult.
Complications for Schizophrenia:
Left untreated, schizophrenia can lead to severe problems that affect every area of life.
Complications that schizophrenia may cause or be related to include:
Suicide, suicide attempts and thoughts of suicide.
Anxiety disorders and obsessive-compulsive disorder, also known as OCD.
Depression.
Misuse of alcohol or other drugs, including nicotine.
Not being able to work or attend school.
Money problems and homelessness.
Social isolation.
Health and medical problems.
Being victimized.
Aggressive or violent behavior, though people with schizophrenia are more likely to be assaulted rather than assault others.
Preventions for Schizophrenia
There's no sure way to prevent schizophrenia. But staying with your treatment plan can help stop symptoms from returning or getting worse. Researchers hope that learning more about risk factors for schizophrenia may lead to earlier diagnosis and treatment.
Condition name:Schizotypal personality disorder
Overview of Schizotypal personality disorder:
People with schizotypal personality disorder are often described as odd or eccentric, and they usually have few, if any, close relationships. They generally don't know how relationships form or how their behavior affects others. They also tend to misinterpret others' motivations and behaviors and greatly distrust others.
These problems may lead to severe anxiety and a tendency to stay away from social situations. That's because people with schizotypal personality disorder tend to hold odd beliefs and may find it hard to respond correctly to social cues.
Schizotypal personality disorder usually is diagnosed in early adulthood, although some features of this condition may show up during childhood and the teen years. It's likely to be a lifelong condition. Treatments, such as medicines and therapy, can make symptoms better.
There are no home remedies available for Schizotypal personality disorder in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schizotypal personality disorder :
Schizotypal personality disorder usually includes five or more of these symptoms. The person may:
Be a loner and lack close friends and other relationships outside of the immediate family.
Have flat emotions or have emotional responses that are limited or not proper socially.
Have too much social anxiety, which is ongoing.
Incorrectly interpret events, such as feeling that something harmless or not offensive has a direct personal meaning.
Have strange or unusual thinking, beliefs or mannerisms.
Have suspicious or paranoid thoughts and constant doubts about the loyalty of others.
Believe in special powers, such as mental telepathy or superstitions.
Have unusual thoughts, such as sensing an absent person's presence, or having illusions.
Dress in odd ways, such as appearing messy or wearing oddly matched clothes.
Speak in an odd way, such as vague or unusual patterns of speaking, or ramble oddly while speaking.
Symptoms of schizotypal personality disorder, such as more interest in activities done alone or a high level of social anxiety, may be seen in the teen years. The child may not do well in school or appear socially out of step with peers. This may lead to teasing or bullying.
Causes for Schizotypal personality disorder :
It's not known what causes schizotypal personality disorder. But it's likely that changes in the way the brain functions, genetics, environmental influences and learned behaviors play a role.
Risk Factors for Schizotypal personality disorder:
You may be more at risk of schizotypal personality disorder if a relative has schizophrenia or another psychotic disorder.
Complications for Schizotypal personality disorder:
People with schizotypal personality disorder are more at risk of:
Depression.
Anxiety.
Other personality disorders.
Schizophrenia.
Temporary psychotic bouts, usually in response to stress.
Misuse of alcohol or drugs.
Suicide attempts.
Problems with work, school and other social relationships.
There are no preventive measures available for Schizotypal personality disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Schwannoma
Overview of Schwannoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Schwannoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schwannoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Schwannoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Schwannoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Schwannoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Schwannoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Schwannomatosis
Overview of Schwannomatosis:
Schwannomatosis is a condition that results in slow-growing tumors on nerve tissue. The tumors can grow on nerves in the ears, brain, spine and eyes. They also can grow on peripheral nerves, which are nerves located outside of the brain and spinal cord. Schwannomatosis is rare. It's usually diagnosed in early adulthood.
There are three types of schwannomatosis. Each type is caused by an altered gene.
In NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2), tumors grow in both ears and can cause hearing loss. The altered gene that causes this type is sometimes passed down from a parent. NF2-related schwannomatosis was previously known as neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2).
The other two types of schwannomatosis are SMARCB1-related schwannomatosis and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis. The altered genes that cause these types usually are not passed down through families.
The tumors caused by schwannomatosis usually are not cancerous. Symptoms can include headaches, hearing loss, trouble with balance and pain. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Schwannomatosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Schwannomatosis :
Schwannomatosis symptoms depend on the type.
Causes for Schwannomatosis :
Schwannomatosis is caused by an altered gene. The specific genes involved depend on the type:
NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2). The NF2 gene produces a protein called merlin, also called schwannomin, that suppresses tumors. An altered gene causes a loss of merlin, leading to cell growth that's not controlled.
SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis. So far, two genes are known to cause these types of schwannomatosis. Changes of the genes SMARCB1 and LZTR1, which suppress tumors, are linked with these conditions.
Risk Factors for Schwannomatosis:
The gene that causes schwannomatosis is sometimes passed down from a parent. The risk of inheriting the gene differs based on the type of schwannomatosis.
For about half of people who have NF2-related schwannomatosis (NF2), they received an altered gene from a parent that caused the disease. NF2 has an autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. This means that any child of a parent who is affected by the disease has a 50% chance of having the gene change. People who have NF2 and whose relatives aren't affected are likely to have a new gene change.
In SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis, the disease is less likely to be passed down from a parent. Researchers estimate that the risk of inheriting SMARCB1- and LZTR1-related schwannomatosis from an affected parent is about 15%.
Complications for Schwannomatosis:
Complications can occur in schwannomatosis, and they depend on the type the person has.
There are no preventive measures available for Schwannomatosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sciatica
Overview of Sciatica:
Sciatica refers to pain that travels along the path of the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve travels from the buttocks and down each leg.
Sciatica most often happens when a herniated disk or an overgrowth of bone puts pressure on the lumbar spine nerve roots. This happens "upstream" from the sciatic nerve. This causes inflammation, pain and often some numbness in the affected leg.
Although the pain associated with sciatica can be serious, those cases that are caused by a herniated disk can clear up with treatment in a few weeks to months. People who have severe sciatica and serious leg weakness or bowel or bladder changes might need surgery.
Home Remedies for Sciatica:
For most people, sciatica responds to self-care measures. Although resting for a day or so may provide relief, staying inactive will make symptoms worse.
Other self-care treatments that might help include:
Cold packs. Place a cold pack on the painful area for up to 20 minutes several times a day. Use an ice pack or a package of frozen peas wrapped in a clean towel.
Hot packs. After 2 to 3 days, apply heat to the areas that hurt. Use hot packs, a heat lamp or a heating pad on the lowest setting. For continuing pain, try using both warm and cold packs, one at a time.
Stretching. Stretching exercises for the low back might provide some relief. Try to hold the stretch for at least 30 seconds. Avoid jerking, bouncing or twisting during the stretch.
Medications. Pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen sodium (Aleve) are sometimes helpful for sciatica. Use only as directed.
Symptoms for Sciatica :
Sciatica pain can be almost anywhere along the nerve pathway. It's especially likely to follow a path from the low back to the buttock and the back of a thigh and calf.
The pain can vary from a mild ache to a sharp, burning pain. Sometimes it feels like a jolt or electric shock. It can be worse when coughing or sneezing or sitting a long time. Usually, sciatica affects only one side of the body.
Some people also have numbness, tingling, or muscle weakness in the leg or foot. One part of the leg can be in pain, while another part can feel numb.
Causes for Sciatica :
Sciatica occurs when the nerve roots to the sciatic nerve become pinched. The cause is usually a herniated disk in the spine or an overgrowth of bone, sometimes called bone spurs, on the spinal bones. More rarely, a tumor can put pressure on the nerve.
Risk Factors for Sciatica:
Risk factors for sciatica include:
Age. People ages 20 to 50 are most likely to have herniated disks. Bone spurs develop more commonly as people age.
Obesity. Being overweight increases stress on the spine.
Occupation. A job that requires twisting the back, carrying heavy loads or driving a motor vehicle for long periods might play a role in herniated disks.
Prolonged sitting. People who sit a lot or don't move much are more likely to develop herniated disks than active people are.
Diabetes. This condition, which affects the way the body uses blood sugar, increases the risk of nerve damage.
Complications for Sciatica:
Most people recover fully from sciatica caused by herniated disks, often without treatment. But sciatica can damage nerves. Seek immediate medical attention for:
Loss of feeling in the affected leg.
Weakness in the affected leg.
Loss of bowel or bladder control.
Preventions for Sciatica
It's not always possible to prevent sciatica, and the condition can come back. To protect your back:
Exercise regularly. To keep the back strong, work the core muscles — the muscles in the abdomen and lower back needed for good posture and alignment. A healthcare professional can recommend activities.
Keep good posture when sitting. Choose a seat with good lower back support, armrests and a swivel base. For better low back support, place a pillow or rolled towel in the small of the back to keep its normal curve. Keep knees and hips level.
Use your body correctly. When standing for long periods, rest one foot on a stool or small box from time to time. When lifting something heavy, let your legs do the work. Hold the load close to your body. Don't lift and twist at the same time. Find someone to help lift heavy or awkward things.
Condition name:Scleroderma
Overview of Scleroderma:
Scleroderma (sklair-oh-DUR-muh), also known as systemic sclerosis, is a group of rare diseases that involve the hardening and tightening of the skin. Scleroderma also may cause problems in the blood vessels, internal organs and digestive tract.
Scleroderma is often categorized as limited or diffuse, which refers only to the degree of skin involvement. Both types can involve any of the other vascular or organ symptoms that are part of the disease. Localized scleroderma, also known as morphea, affects only the skin.
While there is no cure for scleroderma, treatments can ease symptoms, slow progression and improve quality of life.
Home Remedies for Scleroderma:
You can take a number of steps to help manage your symptoms of scleroderma:
Stay active. Exercise keeps your body flexible, improves circulation and eases stiffness. Range-of-motion exercises can help keep your skin and joints flexible. This is always very important, especially early in the disease course.
Protect your skin. Take good care of dry or stiff skin by using lotion and sunscreen regularly. Avoid hot baths and showers and exposure to strong soaps and household chemicals, which can irritate and further dry out your skin.
Don't smoke. Nicotine causes blood vessels to contract, making Raynaud's phenomenon worse. Smoking also can cause permanent narrowing of the blood vessels and cause or worsen lung problems. Quitting smoking can be difficult. Ask your healthcare professional for help.
Manage heartburn. Avoid foods that give you heartburn or gas. Also avoid late-night meals. Elevate the head of your bed to keep stomach acid from backing up into your esophagus as you sleep. Antacids may help relieve symptoms.
Protect yourself from the cold. Wear warm mittens for protection anytime your hands are exposed to cold â€” even when you reach into a freezer. It also is important to keep your core body temperature warm to help prevent Raynaud's phenomenon. When you're outside in the cold, wear warm boots, cover your face and head, and wear layers of warm clothing.
Symptoms for Scleroderma :
Scleroderma symptoms vary from person to person, depending on which parts of the body are affected.
Causes for Scleroderma :
Scleroderma happens when the body produces too much collagen and it builds up in body tissues. Collagen is a fibrous type of protein that makes up the body's connective tissues, including the skin.
Experts don't know exactly what causes this process to begin, but the body's immune system appears to play a role. Most likely, scleroderma is caused by a combination of factors, including immune system problems, genetics and environmental triggers.
Risk Factors for Scleroderma:
Anyone can get scleroderma, but it is more common in people assigned female at birth. People typically get scleroderma between ages 30 and 50. Black people often have earlier onset and are more likely to have more skin involvement and lung disease.
Several other combined factors appear to influence the risk of having scleroderma:
Genetics. People who have certain gene changes appear to be more likely to develop scleroderma. This may explain why scleroderma appears to run in families in a small number of people and why some types of scleroderma are more common for people in certain racial and ethnic groups.
Environmental triggers. Research suggests that in some people, scleroderma symptoms may be triggered by exposure to certain viruses, medicines or drugs. Repeated exposure, such as at work, to certain harmful substances or chemicals also may increase the risk of scleroderma. An environmental trigger is not identified for most people.
Immune system conditions. Scleroderma is believed to be an autoimmune disease. This means that it occurs in part because the body's immune system begins to attack the connective tissues. People who have scleroderma also may have symptoms of another autoimmune disease such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus or Sjogren syndrome.
Complications for Scleroderma:
Scleroderma complications range from mild to serious and can affect the:
Fingertips. In systemic sclerosis, Raynaud's phenomenon can become so severe that the restricted blood flow permanently damages the tissue at the fingertips, causing pits or skin sores. In some people, the tissue on the fingertips may die.
Lungs. Scarring of lung tissue can impact the ability to breathe and tolerance for exercise. High blood pressure in the arteries to the lungs also may happen.
Kidneys. A serious kidney complication, called scleroderma renal crisis, involves a sudden increase in blood pressure and rapid kidney failure. Prompt treatment of this condition is important to preserve kidney function.
Heart. Scarring of heart tissue increases the risk of irregular heartbeats and heart failure. Scleroderma also can cause inflammation of the sac surrounding the heart.
Teeth. Serious tightening of facial skin can cause the mouth to become smaller and narrower. This may make it hard to brush the teeth or to have them professionally cleaned or restored. People who have scleroderma often don't make typical amounts of saliva, so the risk of dental decay increases even more.
Digestive system. Digestive complications of scleroderma can include heartburn and difficulty swallowing. Scleroderma also can cause bouts of cramps, bloating, constipation or diarrhea. Some people who have scleroderma also may have problems absorbing nutrients due to overgrowth of bacteria in the intestine.
Joints. The skin over joints can become so tight that it restricts flexibility and movement, particularly in the hands.
There are no preventive measures available for Scleroderma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sclerosing mesenteritis
Overview of Sclerosing mesenteritis:
Sclerosing mesenteritis is a condition in which tissue that holds the small intestines in place, called the mesentery, becomes inflamed and forms scar tissue. The condition also is called mesenteric panniculitis. Sclerosing mesenteritis is rare, and it's not clear what causes it.
Sclerosing mesenteritis can cause belly pain, vomiting, bloating, diarrhea and fever. But some people experience no symptoms and may never need treatment.
In rare cases, scar tissue formed by sclerosing mesenteritis can block food from moving through the digestive tract. In this case, you may need surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Sclerosing mesenteritis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sclerosing mesenteritis :
Symptoms of sclerosing mesenteritis include pain in the belly, vomiting, bloating, diarrhea and fever. Sometimes people don't have any symptoms.
Causes for Sclerosing mesenteritis :
The cause of sclerosing mesenteritis is not known.
There are no Risk Factors available for Sclerosing mesenteritis in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Sclerosing mesenteritis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Sclerosing mesenteritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Scoliosis
Overview of Scoliosis:
Scoliosis is a sideways curvature of the spine that most often is diagnosed in adolescents. While scoliosis can occur in people with conditions such as cerebral palsy and muscular dystrophy, the cause of most childhood scoliosis is not known.
Most cases of scoliosis are mild, but some curves worsen as children grow. Severe scoliosis can be disabling. An especially serious spinal curve can reduce the amount of space within the chest, making it difficult for the lungs to function properly.
Children who have mild scoliosis are monitored closely, usually with X-rays, to see if the curve is getting worse. In many cases, no treatment is necessary. Some children may need to wear a brace to stop the curve from worsening. Others may need surgery to straighten more serious curves.
Home Remedies for Scoliosis:
There are no specific activities that are known to cause or correct scoliosis. In general, people with scoliosis have no restrictions regarding lifting or activities. General exercise or participating in sports may have the benefit of improving overall health and well-being.
Symptoms for Scoliosis :
Symptoms of scoliosis may include:
Uneven shoulders.
One shoulder blade that appears more prominent than the other.
Uneven waist.
One hip higher than the other.
One side of the rib cage jutting forward.
A prominence on one side of the back when bending forward.
With most scoliosis cases, the spine will rotate or twist in addition to curving side to side. This causes the ribs or muscles on one side of the body to stick out farther than those on the other side.
Causes for Scoliosis :
Health care providers don't know what causes the most common type of scoliosis — although it appears to involve hereditary factors, because the disorder sometimes runs in families. Less common types of scoliosis may be caused by:
Certain neuromuscular conditions, such as cerebral palsy or muscular dystrophy.
Birth defects affecting the development of the bones of the spine.
Previous surgery on the chest wall as a baby.
Injuries to or infections of the spine.
Spinal cord irregularities.
Risk Factors for Scoliosis:
Risk factors for developing the most common type of scoliosis include:
Age. Signs and symptoms typically begin in adolescence.
Sex. Although both boys and girls develop mild scoliosis at about the same rate, girls have a much higher risk of the curve worsening and requiring treatment.
Family history. Scoliosis can run in families, but most children with scoliosis don't have a family history of the disease.
Complications for Scoliosis:
While most people with scoliosis have a mild form of the disorder, scoliosis may sometimes cause complications, including:
Breathing problems. In severe scoliosis, the rib cage may press against the lungs, making it more difficult to breathe.
Back problems. People who had scoliosis as children may be more likely to have chronic back pain as adults, especially if their curves are large and untreated.
Appearance. As scoliosis worsens, it can cause more noticeable changes — including uneven hips and shoulders, prominent ribs, and a shift of the waist and trunk to the side. People with scoliosis often become self-conscious about their appearance.
There are no preventive measures available for Scoliosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Scorpion sting
Overview of Scorpion sting:
Scorpion stings are painful but rarely life-threatening. Healthy adults usually don't need treatment for scorpion stings. Young children and older adults are most at risk of serious complications.
Scorpions are arthropods — a relative of insects, spiders and crustaceans. Bark scorpions — the only scorpion species in the U.S. with venom strong enough to cause serious symptoms — are generally about 1.6 to 3 inches (4 to 8 cm) long, including a segmented tail with a stinger that can deliver venom. They're found mainly in the desert Southwest. Worldwide, of more than 2,000 species of scorpions, about 100 produce venom serious enough to be fatal.
Scorpions have eight legs and a pair of lobster-like pinchers and a tail that curves up. They're generally more active at night. They usually won't sting unless provoked or attacked. Most stings occur when they're accidentally grabbed or stepped on or brushed against the body.
Home Remedies for Scorpion sting:
If a scorpion stings your child, first contact your local poison control center. To reach this center, call Poison Help at 800-222-1222.
Based on Poison Help's advice, consider the following:
Clean the wound with mild soap and water.
Apply a cool compress to the affected area. This may ease the pain.
If stung on an arm or leg, rest the affected limb in a supportive position.
If having a hard time swallowing, limit intake to sips of water. If this symptom does not resolve or gets worse over the next hour, seek medical attention.
Don't take or give any medicines to make you sleep or to feel calm or less anxious.
Take a pain reliever available without a prescription as needed. You might try ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, Children's Motrin, others) to ease pain.
If you're healthy and you're not having any serious symptoms, you may not need to be treated by a doctor. Rather, you also can follow the steps above.
Check vaccination records to be sure tetanus vaccinations are up to date for you and your child.
These tips can help keep children safe until they see a doctor.
Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
Show transcript
for video Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
More Information
Mayo Clinic Minute: Rattlesnakes, scorpions and other desert dangers
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Scorpion sting :
Symptoms at the site of a scorpion sting may include:
Pain, which can be intense.
Numbness and tingling.
Slight swelling.
Warmth.
Symptoms from venom that affect the whole body — usually in children who are stung — include:
A hard time breathing.
Muscle twitching or thrashing.
Unusual head, neck and eye movements.
Drooling.
Sweating.
Slurred speech.
Nausea and vomiting.
High blood pressure (hypertension).
Fast heart rate (tachycardia).
Being restless or excitable, or crying in children that can't be comforted.
As with other stinging insects, such as bees and wasps, it is possible for people who have been stung by scorpions before to have allergic reactions when stung later. Reactions to these later stings are sometimes serious enough to cause a life-threatening condition called anaphylaxis. Symptoms in these cases are like those of anaphylaxis caused by bee stings, including hives, trouble breathing, and nausea and vomiting.
Causes for Scorpion sting :
A scorpion sting is caused by the stinger in a scorpion's tail. When a scorpion stings, its stinger can release venom. The venom contains a complex mix of toxins that affect the nervous system. These are called neurotoxins.
Risk Factors for Scorpion sting:
Your risk of a scorpion sting rises if you:
Live or travel where scorpions are. In the U.S., scorpions mainly live in the desert Southwest, primarily Arizona, New Mexico and parts of California. Worldwide, they're found most often in Mexico, North Africa, South America, the Middle East and India. And you might bring them home with you. That's because scorpions can hide in clothing, luggage and shipping containers.
Work, hike or camp where scorpions are. Bark scorpions live under rocks and logs. They also live under tree bark, which is how they get their name. You're more likely to come into contact with one when you're working outside, hiking or camping.
Complications for Scorpion sting:
The very old and the very young are most likely to die of untreated venomous scorpion stings. The cause is usually heart or lung failure that occurs some hours after the sting. Very few deaths from scorpion stings have been reported in the U.S.
Rarely, scorpion stings can cause a serious allergic reaction called anaphylaxis.
Preventions for Scorpion sting
Scorpions tend to avoid contact. If you live in an area where scorpions are common, consider these steps to prevent chance meetings:
Remove piles of rocks or lumber from around your house, and don't store firewood against the house or inside.
Keep grass closely mowed, and prune bushes and overhanging tree branches that can provide scorpions with a path to your roof.
Caulk cracks, install weatherstripping around doors and windows, and repair torn screens.
Inspect and shake out gardening gloves, clothing and boots that haven't been used for a while.
Take steps when you're traveling. When you're in areas where deadly scorpions are common — especially if you're camping or staying in rustic accommodations — wear shoes. Also, shake out your clothing, bedding, gear and packages often.
Scorpions glow under a black light, so you might want to use one at night to look at what's around you. If you find a scorpion, use tongs to gently move it away from people.
Condition name:Scrotal masses
Overview of Scrotal masses:
Scrotal masses are lumps or swelling in the scrotum, the bag of skin that holds the testicles.
Scrotal masses might be:
A buildup of fluids.
The growth of irregular tissue.
Swollen, inflamed or hardened parts inside the scrotum.
It's key to get a scrotal mass checked by a health care professional, even if you don't have pain or other symptoms. Some masses could be cancer. Or they could be caused by another medical condition that affects the health of the testicles and how well they work.
Each month, check your scrotum for any changes. Also get the area checked during regular health checkups. This can help you spot masses early, when many treatments work better.
Home Remedies for Scrotal masses:
Testicular self-exam
Enlarge image
Self-exams of the testicles might help you find a scrotal mass early on. To do a self-exam, follow these steps:
Check your testicles once a month. This is key if you've had testicular cancer or if a blood relative, such as your father or brother, has had it.
Do the exam after a warm bath or shower. The heat from the water relaxes your scrotum, making it easier for you to check.
Stand in front of a mirror. Look for swelling on the skin of the scrotum.
Cup your scrotum with one hand to see if it feels different than usual.
Check one testicle at a time using both hands. Place the index and middle fingers under the testicle; place your thumbs on top.
Gently roll the testicle between the thumbs and fingers to feel for lumps. The testicles are usually smooth, oval shaped and somewhat firm. Often, one testicle is slightly larger than the other.
Feel along the soft, comma-shaped structure that runs above and behind the testicle, called the epididymis, to check for swelling.
If you find a lump or other unusual change, seek medical care to get it checked as soon as you can.
Symptoms for Scrotal masses :
Symptoms of scrotal masses vary. Some cause pain and others don't. It depends on the cause. Symptoms of a scrotal mass might include:
An unusual lump.
Sudden pain.
Dull aching or a feeling of heaviness in the scrotum.
Pain that spreads all over the groin, stomach area or lower back.
A tender, swollen or hardened testicle or epididymis (ep-ih-DID-uh-miss). The epididymis is the soft, comma-shaped tube above and behind the testicle that stores and transports sperm.
Swelling in the scrotum.
A change in color of the skin of the scrotum.
Upset stomach or vomiting.
If an infection causes a scrotal mass, symptoms also might include:
Fever.
Needing to pee often.
Pus or blood in the urine.
Causes for Scrotal masses :
Many health conditions can cause a scrotal mass or an unusual change in the scrotum. These include:
Testicular cancer. This is cancer that starts in the testicles. It often causes a painless lump or swelling in the scrotum. But some people with testicular cancer don't have any symptoms. See your doctor or other health care professional if you notice a new lump in your scrotum.
Spermatocele. This fluid-filled sac in the scrotum is often above the testicle. It tends to be painless. And usually, it's not cancer. A spermatocele also is known as a spermatic cyst or epididymal cyst.
Epididymitis. This is when the coiled tube at the back of the testicle, called the epididymis, becomes inflamed.
Often, epididymitis is caused by an infection with bacteria. For instance, bacterial infections that spread through sex, such as chlamydia, can cause it. Less often, a virus can lead to epididymitis.
Orchitis. This is when inflammation, which can include pain and swelling, affects the testicle. Usually, it's due to an illness caused by a virus, most often mumps.
Hydrocele. This is when extra fluid collects between the layers of a sac that surrounds each testicle. Most often, there's a small amount of fluid in this space. But the excess fluid of a hydrocele can lead to a painless swelling of the scrotum.
In adults, a hydrocele can happen because of an imbalance in the amounts of fluid made or absorbed. Often, this is due to an injury or infection in the scrotum.
In babies, a hydrocele tends to happen because an opening between the stomach area and the scrotum hasn't properly closed during development.
Hematocele. This is a buildup of blood between the layers of a sac that surrounds each testicle. An injury, such as a direct hit to the testicles, is the most likely cause.
Varicocele. This happens when the veins inside the scrotum get bigger. Varicocele is more common on the left side of the scrotum due to differences in how blood flows from each side. A varicocele might cause infertility, which is when you can't get your partner pregnant after a year of unprotected sex.
Inguinal hernia. This is when part of the small intestine pushes through an opening or weak spot in the tissue that separates the stomach area and groin. It might appear as a mass in the scrotum or higher in the groin.
In infants, an inguinal hernia often happens before birth when the passageway from the stomach area to the scrotum doesn't close.
Testicular torsion. This is a painful problem that cuts off blood to the testicle. It happens due to a twisting of the spermatic cord. That's a bundle of blood vessels, nerves and the tube that carries semen from the testicle to the penis. Without prompt treatment, testicular torsion can lead to the loss of the testicle.
Risk Factors for Scrotal masses:
Things that can raise the risk of a scrotal mass include:
Undescended testicle. An undescended testicle doesn't leave the stomach area and move down into the scrotum before birth or in the months afterward.
Conditions present at birth. Some people are born with irregular changes in the testicles, penis or kidneys. These might raise the risk of a scrotal mass and testicular cancer later in life.
History of testicular cancer. If you've had cancer in one testicle, your risk of getting cancer in the other testicle is higher. Having a parent or a sibling who's had testicular cancer also raises your risk.
Complications for Scrotal masses:
Not all scrotal masses lead to long-term medical conditions. But any mass that affects the health or function of the testicle can result in:
Delayed or poor development during puberty.
Infertility.
There are no preventive measures available for Scrotal masses in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sebaceous carcinoma
Overview of Sebaceous carcinoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Sebaceous carcinoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sebaceous carcinoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Sebaceous carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Sebaceous carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Sebaceous carcinoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Sebaceous carcinoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Seborrheic dermatitis
Overview of Seborrheic dermatitis:
Seborrheic (seb-o-REE-ik) dermatitis is a common skin condition that mainly affects your scalp. It causes scaly patches, inflamed skin and stubborn dandruff. It usually affects oily areas of the body, such as the face, sides of the nose, eyebrows, ears, eyelids and chest. This condition can be irritating but it's not contagious, and it doesn't cause permanent hair loss.
Seborrheic dermatitis may go away without treatment. Or you may need to use medicated shampoo or other products long term to clear up symptoms and prevent flare-ups.
Seborrheic dermatitis is also called dandruff, seborrheic eczema and seborrheic psoriasis. When it occurs in infants, it's called cradle cap.
Home Remedies for Seborrheic dermatitis:
You may be able to control seborrheic dermatitis with lifestyle changes and home remedies. Many of these are sold in nonprescription forms. You may need to try different products or a combination of products before your condition improves.
The best approach for you depends on your skin type, hair-grooming practices and your symptoms. But even if your condition clears up, it's likely to come back at some point. Watch for the symptoms and resume treating the condition when it recurs. Or use nonprescription antidandruff products in your self-care routine to prevent flare-ups.
Wash your scalp regularly
If regular shampoo doesn't help with dandruff, try nonprescription dandruff shampoos. They are classified according to the active ingredient they contain:
Pyrithione zinc (DermaZinc, Head & Shoulders, others), also sold as bar soap
Selenium sulfide (Head & Shoulders, Selsun Blue, others)
Ketoconazole 1% (Nizoral A-D)
Tar (Denorex Extra Strength, DHS Tar, others)
Salicylic acid (Denorex, DHS Sal, others)
How often you shampoo or apply other antifungal products will depend on your hair-grooming practices and symptoms. Medicated shampoos can be used once a day or 2 to 3 times a week for several weeks. After your symptoms clear up, use a medicated shampoo just once a week or once every two weeks. This will help prevent a relapse. Shampoo that contains tar or selenium sulfide can discolor light-colored hair.
Sometimes a shampoo that has helped loses its effectiveness over time. If that's the case, try alternating between two or more types. Be sure to leave your shampoo on for the full recommended time â€” this allows its ingredients to work. Then rinse. These shampoos may be rubbed gently on the face, ears and chest and rinsed off well.
Other home remedies
The following nonprescription treatments and self-care tips may help you control seborrheic dermatitis:
Soften and remove scales from your hair. Apply mineral oil, peanut oil or olive oil to your scalp. Leave it in for 1 to 3 hours. Then comb or brush your hair and wash it.
Wash your skin regularly. Use warm, not hot, water and a gentle soap or nonsoap cleanser. Rinse thoroughly. Pat dry and apply a moisturizer while your skin is still damp.
Apply a medicated cream. First try a mild corticosteroid cream, foam, ointment or oil (Scalpicin Scalp Itch) on affected areas, keeping it away from the eyes. If that doesn't work, try the antifungal cream ketoconazole.
Don't use styling products. Stop using hair sprays, gels and other styling products while you're treating the condition.
Don't use skin and hair products that contain alcohol. These can cause the disease to flare up.
If you have a beard or mustache, shampoo facial hair regularly. Seborrheic dermatitis can be worse under mustaches and beards. Shampoo with 1% ketoconazole daily until your symptoms improve. Then switch to shampooing once a week or once every two weeks. Or shaving might ease your symptoms.
Gently clean your eyelids. If your eyelids are inflamed or scaly, wash them each night. Use a few drops of baby shampoo mixed with two capfuls of warm water. Wipe away scales with a cotton swab. Warm, damp cloths pressed to your eyelids also may help.
Gently wash your baby's scalp. If your infant has mild cradle cap, wash the scalp with a mild baby shampoo once a day. Gently loosen the scales with a cloth or an infant hairbrush before rinsing out the shampoo. If scaling persists, first apply mineral oil or olive oil to the scalp for an hour or two. Cradle cap usually disappears in a few weeks or months.
Symptoms for Seborrheic dermatitis :
Seborrheic dermatitis signs and symptoms may include:
Flaking skin (dandruff) on your scalp, hair, eyebrows, beard or mustache
Patches of greasy skin covered with flaky white or yellow scales or crust on the scalp, face, sides of the nose, eyebrows, ears, eyelids, chest, armpits, groin area or under the breasts
Rash that may look darker or lighter in people with brown or Black skin and redder in those with white skin
Ring-shaped (annular) rash, for a type called petaloid seborrheic dermatitis
Itchiness (pruritus)
The signs and symptoms of seborrheic dermatitis tend to flare with stress, fatigue or a change of season.
Causes for Seborrheic dermatitis :
The exact cause of seborrheic dermatitis isn't clear. It may be due to the yeast Malassezia, excess oil in the skin or a problem in the immune system.
There are no Risk Factors available for Seborrheic dermatitis in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Seborrheic dermatitis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Seborrheic dermatitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Seizures
Overview of Seizures:
A seizure is a sudden, uncontrolled burst of electrical activity in the brain. It can cause changes in behavior, movements, feelings and levels of consciousness. Having two or more seizures at least 24 hours apart that don't have a known cause is considered to be epilepsy.
There are many types of seizures, and they have a range of symptoms and severity. Seizure types vary by where they begin in the brain and how far they spread. Most seizures last from 30 seconds to two minutes. A seizure that lasts longer than five minutes is a medical emergency.
Seizures can happen after a stroke or a head injury. They also may be caused by an infection such as meningitis or another illness. Many times, though, the cause is unknown.
Most seizures can be controlled with medicine. However, managing seizures can affect your daily life. You can work with your health care professional to balance seizure control and medicine side effects.
Home Remedies for Seizures:
Mayo Clinic Connect: Epilepsy & Seizures
Mayo Clinic Connect: Brain & Nervous System
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your health care professional. If you feel that your medicine should be changed, talk about it with your care professional.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This will help emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Be active. Exercising and being active may help keep you physically healthy and reduce depression. Make sure to drink enough water and rest if you get tired during exercise.
Make healthy life choices. Managing stress, limiting alcohol and not smoking all factor into a healthy lifestyle.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury, but if you have recurrent seizures, injury is a possibility. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off of them. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you do fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers.
Consider a seizure detection device. The Food and Drug Administration has cleared a watch-like prescription device that can detect tonic-clonic seizures (Embrace2). The device alerts loved ones or caregivers so that they can check on you and ensure your safety. Talk with your health care professional to decide if using this type of device might be appropriate for you.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers so that they know what to do if you have a seizure.
To help someone during a seizure, take these steps:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight neckwear.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical help arrives.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Stay calm.
Symptoms for Seizures :
Symptoms vary based on the type of seizure. They also can range from mild to severe. Seizure symptoms may include:
Temporary confusion.
A staring spell.
Jerking movements of the arms and legs that can't be controlled.
Loss of consciousness or awareness.
Cognitive or emotional changes. They may include fear, anxiety or a feeling that you've already lived this moment, known as deja vu.
A classification system distinguishes the different types of seizures. Health care professionals typically classify seizures as focal or generalized. Seizures are classified based on how and where the brain activity causing the seizure began. If health care professionals don't know how the seizures began, they may classify the seizures as unknown onset.
Causes for Seizures :
Nerve cells in the brain, known as neurons, create, send and receive electrical impulses. This allows the cells to communicate. Anything that disrupts the communication pathways can lead to a seizure. Some types of seizures may be caused by genetic changes.
The most common cause of seizures is epilepsy. But not every person who has a seizure has epilepsy. Sometimes seizures may be caused or triggered by:
A high fever. When this happens, the seizure is known as a febrile seizure.
An infection of the brain. This may include meningitis or encephalitis.
Severe general illness, including a severe infection of COVID-19.
Lack of sleep.
Low blood sodium. This can happen with medicine that makes you urinate.
Certain medicines that treat pain, depression or help people stop smoking. They can make it easier for seizures to happen.
A new, active brain injury, such as head trauma. It can cause bleeding in an area of the brain or a new stroke.
The use of legal or illegal drugs that may be sold on the streets, such as amphetamines or cocaine.
Alcohol misuse, including during times of withdrawal or extreme intoxication.
There are no Risk Factors available for Seizures in the knowledge baseComplications for Seizures:
Having a seizure can sometimes lead to complications that are dangerous for you or others. You might be at risk of:
Falling. If you fall during a seizure, you can injure your head or break a bone.
Drowning. If you have a seizure while swimming or bathing, you're at risk of accidental drowning.
Car accidents. A seizure that causes loss of awareness or the inability to control a vehicle while conscious can be dangerous.
Pregnancy complications. Seizures during pregnancy pose dangers to people who are pregnant and their babies. And certain anti-seizure medicines increase the risk of birth defects. If you have epilepsy and plan to become pregnant, work with your health care professional. Your care professional can adjust your medicines and monitor your pregnancy as needed.
Mental health issues. People with seizures are more likely to have depression, anxiety or other emotional health issues. Dealing with the condition and the side effects of anti-seizure medicines can cause these issues.
There are no preventive measures available for Seizures in the knowledge baseCondition name:Selective IgA deficiency
Overview of Selective IgA deficiency:
Selective IgA deficiency is the lack of a disease-fighting antibody in the immune system called immunoglobulin A (IgA). People with this condition usually have typical levels of other immunoglobulins (im-u-no-GLOB-u-lins).
An immunoglobulin is an antibody produced by immune system cells to fight bacteria, parasites and other agents that cause illness. IgA antibodies circulate in the blood and are found in tears, saliva, breast milk, and fluids released from the lining of the airways, lungs and digestive system.
Most people with selective IgA deficiency have no symptoms. But some people who have selective IgA deficiency have frequent illness of the airways, lungs and digestive system.
Selective IgA deficiency may increase the risk of other conditions related to the immune system, such as allergies, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel diseases and others.
There is no treatment specifically for selective IgA deficiency. Treatments focus on addressing the frequent, repeat or long-lasting conditions that develop with this immune system disorder.
There are no home remedies available for Selective IgA deficiency in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Selective IgA deficiency :
Most people with selective IgA deficiency have no symptoms. Some people have illnesses more often than is typical. They also may have a particular illness that returns often. Having frequent illnesses doesn't necessarily mean a person has selective IgA deficiency.
People with selective IgA deficiency may have frequent or repeat episodes of the following:
Ear infections, particularly in young children.
Colds.
Sinus infections.
Lung illnesses, such as bronchitis or pneumonia.
Giardiasis, a parasitic illness of the digestive system that causes diarrhea.
Children with frequent illnesses may not eat well or may not gain weight typical for their age.
Causes for Selective IgA deficiency :
Selective IgA deficiency happens when immune system cells don't produce any or produce very few IgA antibodies. The exact reason cells don't produce these antibodies isn't known.
Certain medicines used to treat seizures, epilepsy or rheumatoid arthritis may cause selective IgA deficiency in some people. The deficiency may continue after the medicine is no longer taken.
Risk Factors for Selective IgA deficiency:
A family history of selective IgA deficiency increases the risk of the condition. Certain variations of genes appear to be linked to selective IgA deficiency, but no gene is known to directly cause the condition.
Complications for Selective IgA deficiency:
People with selective IgA deficiency are at increased risk of other long-term conditions. These include:
Allergies and asthma.
Rheumatoid arthritis.
Celiac disease.
Inflammatory bowel disease.
Common variable immunodeficiency, which is a lack of two or more types of immunoglobulins.
There are no preventive measures available for Selective IgA deficiency in the knowledge baseCondition name:Self-injury/cutting
Overview of Self-injury/cutting:
Nonsuicidal self-injury, often simply called self-injury, is the act of harming your own body on purpose, such as by cutting or burning yourself. It's usually not meant as a suicide attempt. This type of self-injury is a harmful way to cope with emotional pain, sadness, anger and stress.
While self-injury may bring a brief sense of calm and a release of physical and emotional tension, it's usually followed by guilt and shame and the return of painful emotions. Life-threatening injuries are usually not intended, but it's possible that more-serious and even fatal self-harm could happen.
Getting the proper treatment can help you learn healthier ways to cope.
Home Remedies for Self-injury/cutting:
In addition to professional treatment, here are some important self-care tips:
Follow your treatment plan. Keep therapy appointments. Practice and use coping skills learned in therapy. Take any prescribed medicine as directed.
Recognize the situations or feelings that might trigger your desire to self-injure. Make a plan for other ways to soothe or distract yourself or to get support, so you're ready the next time you feel the urge to self-injure.
Ask for help. Keep your mental health provider's phone number handy. Tell your provider about all incidents related to self-injury. Choose a trusted family member or friend as the person you'll immediately contact if you have an urge to self-injure or if self-injury happens.
Take care of yourself. Learn how to include physical activity and relaxation exercises as a regular part of your daily routine. Eat healthy. Ask your health care provider for advice if you have sleep problems, which can have a big impact on behavior.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. They affect your ability to make good decisions and can put you at risk of self-injury.
Take care of your wounds if you injure yourself or seek medical treatment if needed. Call a trusted family member or friend for help and support. Don't share items used for self-injury. That raises the risk of infectious diseases.
Symptoms for Self-injury/cutting :
Symptoms of self-injury may include:
Scars, often in patterns.
Fresh cuts, scratches, bruises, bite marks or other wounds.
Excessive rubbing of an area to create a burn.
Keeping sharp objects or other items used for self-injury on hand.
Wearing long sleeves or long pants to hide self-injury, even in hot weather.
Frequent reports of accidental injury.
Difficulties in relationships with others.
Behaviors and emotions that change quickly and are impulsive, intense and unexpected.
Talk of helplessness, hopelessness or worthlessness.
Causes for Self-injury/cutting :
There's no one single or simple cause that leads someone to self-injure. In general, self-injury may result from:
Poor coping skills. Nonsuicidal self-injury is usually the result of an inability to cope in healthy ways with stress and emotional pain.
Difficulty managing emotions. Having a hard time controlling, expressing or understanding emotions may lead to self-injury. The mix of emotions that triggers self-injury is complex. For example, there may be feelings of worthlessness, loneliness, panic, anger, guilt, rejection and self-hatred. Being bullied or having questions about sexual identity may be part of the mix of emotions.
Self-injury may be an attempt to:
Manage or reduce severe distress or anxiety and provide a sense of relief.
Provide a distraction from painful emotions through physical pain.
Feel a sense of control over the body, feelings or life situations.
Feel something — anything — even if it's physical pain, when feeling emotionally empty.
Express internal feelings in an external way.
Communicate feelings of stress or depression to the outside world.
Punish oneself.
Risk Factors for Self-injury/cutting:
Teenagers and young adults are most likely to self-injure, but those in other age groups do it, too. Self-injury often starts in the preteen or early teen years, when emotional changes happen fast, often and unexpectedly. During this time, teens also face increasing peer pressure, loneliness, and conflicts with parents or other authority figures.
Certain factors may increase the risk of self-injury, including:
Having friends who self-injure. Having friends who intentionally harm themselves makes it more likely for someone to begin self-injuring.
Life issues. Past experiences of neglect, sexual, physical or emotional abuse, or other traumatic events may increase the risk of self-injury. So can growing up and remaining in an unstable family environment. Other risk factors include questioning personal or sexual identity and social isolation.
Mental health issues. Being highly self-critical and struggling with problem solving increases the risk of self-injury. Also, self-injury is commonly linked with certain mental health conditions, such as borderline personality disorder, depression, anxiety disorders, post-traumatic stress disorder and eating disorders.
Alcohol or drug use. Being under the influence of alcohol or recreational drugs may increase the risk of self-injury.
Complications for Self-injury/cutting:
Self-injury can cause complications, such as:
Worsening feelings of shame, guilt and low self-esteem.
Infection, either from wounds or from sharing tools.
Permanent scars or other permanent harm to the body.
Worsening of underlying issues and conditions, if not properly treated.
Severe injury that could possibly lead to death.
Preventions for Self-injury/cutting
There is no sure way to prevent someone's self-injuring behavior. But reducing the risk of self-injury includes strategies that involve both individuals and communities. Parents, family members, teachers, school nurses, coaches or friends can help.
Identify someone at risk and offer help. Someone at risk can be taught how to better manage stress and deal with life's problems. The person can learn healthy coping skills to use during periods of distress.
Encourage supportive social networks. Feeling lonely and disconnected may be a part of self-injury. Helping someone form healthy connections to people who don't self-injure can improve relationship and communication skills.
Raise awareness. Learn about the warning signs of self-injury and what to do when you suspect it.
Encourage friends to seek help. Peers tend to be loyal to their friends. Encourage children, teens and young adults to avoid secrecy and reach out for help if they have a concern about a friend or family member.
Talk about media influence. News media, music and other highly visible outlets that feature self-injury may nudge children and young adults with mental or emotional issues to experiment. Teaching children critical thinking skills about the influences around them might reduce the harmful impact.
Condition name:Separation anxiety disorder
Overview of Separation anxiety disorder:
Separation anxiety is a typical phase for many infants and toddlers. Young children often have a period where they get anxious or distressed when they have to separate from their parent or main caregivers. Examples of this can be tears at daycare drop-off or getting fussy when a new person holds them. This usually starts to improve by about 2 to 3 years of age.
In some children, intense and ongoing separation anxiety is a sign of a more serious condition known as separation anxiety disorder. Separation anxiety disorder can be identified as early as preschool age.
Your child may have separation anxiety disorder if separation anxiety seems more intense than other kids of the same age or lasts a longer time, interferes with school or other daily activities, or includes panic attacks or other problem behaviors. Most often, separation anxiety relates to the child's anxiety about being away from parents or guardians, but it could relate to another close caregiver.
Less often, separation anxiety disorder can occur in teenagers and adults. This can cause major problems leaving home or going to work.
Treatment can lessen separation anxiety disorder symptoms. Treatment may include specific types of therapy, sometimes along with medicine.
Home Remedies for Separation anxiety disorder:
While separation anxiety disorder gets better with professional treatment, you also can take these steps to help ease your child's separation anxiety:
Learn about your child's separation anxiety disorder. Talk to your child's mental health professional to learn about the condition and help your child understand it.
Follow the treatment plan. Keep the therapy appointments for your child. Consistency makes a big difference.
Take action. Learn what triggers your child's anxiety. Practice the skills learned from the mental health professional so you're ready to deal with your child's anxious feelings during separations.
Symptoms for Separation anxiety disorder :
Separation anxiety disorder is diagnosed when symptoms are much more than expected for someone's developmental age and cause major distress or problems doing daily activities. Symptoms may include:
Repeated and intense distress when thinking about separation or when away from home or loved ones. This may include being clingy or having tantrums about separation that last longer or are more severe than other kids of the same age.
Constant, intense worry about losing a parent or other loved one to an illness, death, or a disaster or harm coming to them.
Constant worry that something bad will happen, such as being lost or kidnapped, causing separation from parents or other loved ones.
Not wanting to or refusing to be away from home because of fear of separation.
Not wanting to be home alone or somewhere without a parent or other loved one close by, if the child has reached an age where being alone might be expected.
Not wanting to or refusing to sleep away from home or to go to sleep without a parent or other loved one nearby, if the child has reached an age where these activities might be expected.
Repeated nightmares about separation.
Repeated complaints of headaches, stomachaches, or other symptoms during or before separation from a parent or other loved one.
Separation anxiety disorder may occur along with panic attacks. Panic attacks are repeated bouts of sudden feelings of intense anxiety and fear or terror that reach a peak within minutes.
Causes for Separation anxiety disorder :
Sometimes, separation anxiety can be triggered by life stress that results in separation from a loved one. Examples include divorce of parents, changing schools, moving to a new location or a loved one's death. Genetics may play a role in separation anxiety becoming separation anxiety disorder.
Risk Factors for Separation anxiety disorder:
Separation anxiety disorder most often begins in childhood. But it may continue into the teenage years and sometimes into adulthood.
Risk factors may include:
Life stresses or loss that result in separation. Examples include the illness or death of a loved one, loss of a beloved pet, divorce of parents, or moving or going away to school.
Family history. Having blood relatives who have anxiety symptoms or an anxiety disorder may increase the risk of having separation anxiety disorder.
Situational issues. Experiencing some type of disaster or traumatic life event may increase the risk of separation anxiety disorder.
Complications for Separation anxiety disorder:
Separation anxiety disorder causes major distress and problems functioning at home, in social situations, or at work or school.
Disorders that can occur along with separation anxiety disorder include:
Other anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder, panic attacks, phobias, social anxiety disorder or agoraphobia.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Depression.
There are no preventive measures available for Separation anxiety disorder in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
Overview of Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs):
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are caused by sexually transmitted infections (STIs). They are spread mainly by sexual contact. STIs are caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites. A sexually transmitted infection may pass from person to person in blood, semen, or vaginal and other bodily fluids.
Sometimes sexually transmitted infections are spread in ways other than sexual contact. For example, STIs can spread to infants during pregnancy or childbirth. STIs also can spread through blood transfusions or shared needles.
STIs don't always cause symptoms. A person can get sexually transmitted infections from another person who seems healthy and may not even know they have an infection.
There are no home remedies available for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) :
STDs can have a range of symptoms, including no symptoms. That's why sexually transmitted infections may go unnoticed until a person has complications or a partner is diagnosed.
STI symptoms might include:
Sores or bumps on the genitals or in the oral or rectal area.
Painful or burning urination.
Discharge from the penis.
Unusual or odorous vaginal discharge.
Unusual vaginal bleeding.
Pain during sex.
Sore, swollen lymph nodes, particularly in the groin but sometimes more widespread.
Lower abdominal pain.
Fever.
Rash over the trunk, hands or feet.
Sexually transmitted infection symptoms may appear a few days after exposure. But it may take years before you have any noticeable problems, depending on what's causing the STI.
Causes for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) :
Sexually transmitted infections can be caused by:
Bacteria. Gonorrhea, syphilis and chlamydia are examples of STDs that are caused by bacteria.
Parasites. Trichomoniasis is an STD caused by a parasite.
Viruses. STDs caused by viruses include human papillomavirus (HPV), the herpes simplex virus, and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which causes AIDS.
Risk Factors for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs):
Anyone who is sexually active risks getting or spreading an STD.
Factors that may increase the risk of getting an sexually transmitted infection include:
Having unprotected sex. Vaginal or anal sex with an infected partner who isn't wearing a condom (latex or polyurethane) greatly increases the risk of getting an STD. Condoms made from natural membranes aren't recommended because they're not effective at preventing some STIs. Not using condoms properly or not using them each time also can increase risk.
Oral sex may be less risky. But sexually transmitted infections can still spread if a person doesn't use a condom (latex or polyurethane) or a dental dam. That is a thin, square piece of rubber made with latex or silicone.
Having sexual contact with many partners. The more people you have sexual activity with, the greater your risk.
Having a history of STIs. Having one sexually transmitted infection makes it much easier for another STI to take hold.
Being forced to engage in sexual activity. See a health care professional as soon as possible to get screening, treatment and emotional support.
Misuse of alcohol or use of recreational drugs. Substance misuse can inhibit your judgment, making you more willing to take part in risky behaviors.
Injecting drugs. Sharing a needle while injecting drugs can spread many serious infections. Examples are human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
Being young. People age 15 to 24 report high levels of STIs compared to those who are older.
Complications for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs):
Many people in the early stages of an STD have no symptoms. That's why screening is important to prevent complications.
Possible complications of sexually transmitted infections include:
Pelvic pain.
Pregnancy complications.
Eye inflammation.
Arthritis.
Pelvic inflammatory disease.
Infertility.
Heart disease.
Certain cancers, such as HPV-associated cervical and rectal cancers.
Preventions for Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)
There are many ways to avoid or lower your risk of getting an STD.
Avoid sex or sexual activity. The most effective way to avoid STDs is to not have sex.
Stay with one uninfected partner. Staying in a long-term relationship in which both people have sex only with each other and neither partner is infected can be one way to avoid an STD.
Wait and test. Avoid vaginal and anal sex or sexual activity with new partners until you have both been tested for sexually transmitted infections. Oral sex may be less risky. But STIs can still spread if a person doesn't use a condom (latex or polyurethane) or a dental dam. These barriers prevent skin-to-skin contact between the oral and genital mucous membranes.
Get vaccinated. Getting vaccinated before having sex can prevent certain types of sexually transmitted infections. Vaccines are available to prevent STDs caused by human papillomavirus (HPV), hepatitis A and hepatitis B.
Use condoms and dental dams consistently and correctly. Use a new latex or polyurethane condom or dental dam for each sex act, whether oral, vaginal or anal. Never use an oil-based lubricant, such as petroleum jelly, with a latex condom or dental dam. Also, these types of barriers give less protection for STDs involving exposed genital sores, such as HPV or herpes.
Nonbarrier forms of contraception, such as birth control pills or intrauterine devices (IUDs), don't protect against STIs.
Don't drink alcohol excessively or use illegal drugs. If you're under the influence of these substances, you're more likely to take sexual risks.
Talk to your partner. Before any sexual contact, talk to your partner about practicing safer sex. Be sure you clearly agree on what activities will and won't be OK.
Think about male circumcision. For men, evidence has found that circumcision can help lower the risk of getting HIV from a woman with HIV by as much as 60%. Male circumcision may also help prevent spread of genital HPV and genital herpes.
Think about using preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP). The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved two combination medicines to lower the risk of HIV infection in people who are at very high risk. The medicines are emtricitabine plus tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (Truvada) and emtricitabine plus tenofovir alafenamide fumarate (Descovy). These medicines must be taken every day, exactly as prescribed.
Your health care professional will prescribe these medicines for HIV prevention only if you don't already have HIV. You'll need an HIV test before you start taking PrEP and then every three months as long as you're taking it.
Your health care professional also will test your kidney function before prescribing Truvada. They will then test your kidney function every six months. If you have hepatitis B, see an infectious disease specialist or liver specialist before starting therapy.
According to the CDC, if you use Truvada daily, you can lower your risk of getting HIV from sex by about 99%. And you can lower your risk of getting HIV from injection drug use by more than 74%.
Research suggests that Descovy is also effective in lowering the risk of getting HIV from sex. But Descovy hasn't been studied in people who have receptive vaginal sex. Using added prevention, such as condoms, can lower your risk even more and prevent other STIs.
Condition name:Shaken baby syndrome
Overview of Shaken baby syndrome:
Shaken baby syndrome is a serious brain injury resulting from forcefully shaking an infant or toddler. It's also known as abusive head trauma, shaken impact syndrome, inflicted head injury or whiplash shaken infant syndrome.
Shaken baby syndrome destroys a child's brain cells and prevents his or her brain from getting enough oxygen. This form of child abuse can cause permanent brain damage or death.
Shaken baby syndrome is preventable. Help is available for parents who are at risk of harming a child. Parents also can educate other caregivers about the dangers of shaken baby syndrome.
There are no home remedies available for Shaken baby syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Shaken baby syndrome :
Shaken baby syndrome symptoms and signs include:
Extreme fussiness or irritability
Difficulty staying awake
Breathing problems
Poor eating
Vomiting
Pale or bluish skin
Seizures
Paralysis
Coma
While sometimes there's bruising on the face, you may not see signs of physical injury to the child's outer body. Injuries that might not be immediately seen include bleeding in the brain and eyes, spinal cord damage, and fractures of the ribs, skull, legs and other bones. Many children with shaken baby syndrome show signs and symptoms of prior child abuse.
In mild cases of shaken baby syndrome, a child may appear normal after being shaken, but over time they may develop health or behavioral problems.
Causes for Shaken baby syndrome :
Babies have weak neck muscles and can't support the weight of their heads. If a baby is forcefully shaken, their fragile brain moves back and forth inside the skull. This causes bruising, swelling and bleeding.
Shaken baby syndrome usually occurs when a parent or caregiver severely shakes a baby or toddler due to frustration or anger — often because the child won't stop crying.
Shaken baby syndrome isn't usually caused by bouncing a child on your knee or minor falls.
Risk Factors for Shaken baby syndrome:
The following things may increase the risk that parents or caregivers are more likely to forcefully shake a baby and cause shaken baby syndrome:
Unrealistic expectations of babies
Young or single parenthood
Stress
Domestic violence
Alcohol or substance abuse
Unstable family situations
Depression
A history of mistreatment as a child
Also, men are more likely to cause shaken baby syndrome than are women.
Complications for Shaken baby syndrome:
Even brief shaking of an infant can cause irreversible brain damage. Many children affected by shaken baby syndrome die.
Survivors of shaken baby syndrome may require lifelong medical care for conditions such as:
Partial or total blindness
Developmental delays, learning problems or behavior issues
Intellectual disability
Seizure disorders
Cerebral palsy, a disorder that affects movement and muscle coordination
Preventions for Shaken baby syndrome
New parent education classes can help parents better understand the dangers of violent shaking and may provide tips to soothe a crying baby and manage stress.
When your crying baby can't be calmed, you may be tempted to try anything to get the tears to stop — but it's important to always treat your child gently. Nothing justifies shaking a child.
If you're having trouble managing your emotions or the stress of parenthood, seek help. Your child's doctor may offer a referral to a counselor or other mental health provider.
If other people help take care of your child — whether a hired caregiver, sibling or grandparent — make sure they know the dangers of shaken baby syndrome.
Condition name:Shellfish allergy
Overview of Shellfish allergy:
Shellfish allergy is an atypical response by the body's immune system to proteins in certain marine animals. Marine animals in the shellfish category include crustaceans and mollusks. Examples are shrimp, crabs, lobster, squid, oysters, scallops and snails.
Shellfish is a common food allergy. Some people with shellfish allergy react to all shellfish, while others react to only certain kinds. Reactions range from mild symptoms — such as hives or a stuffy nose — to severe and even life-threatening.
If you think you have shellfish allergy, talk to your health care provider. Tests can help confirm the allergy so you can take steps to avoid future reactions.
There are no home remedies available for Shellfish allergy in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Shellfish allergy :
Shellfish allergy symptoms generally start within minutes to an hour after eating or having contact with shellfish. They may include:
Hives
Itchy, irritated skin
Nasal stuffiness (congestion)
Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat, or other parts of the body
Wheezing or trouble breathing
Coughing and choking or a tight feeling in the throat
Belly (abdominal) pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting
Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting
Causes for Shellfish allergy :
All food allergies are caused by an immune system overreaction. Your immune system identifies a harmless substance as being harmful. This substance is called an allergen. In shellfish allergy, your immune system mistakenly identifies a certain protein in shellfish as harmful. Your immune system is how your body protects itself, so it produces immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies to protect against this allergen. The next time you come in contact with the shellfish protein, these antibodies signal your immune system to release chemicals such as histamine into your bloodstream. This causes a reaction that leads to the symptoms of an allergic reaction.
Risk Factors for Shellfish allergy:
You're at increased risk of developing shellfish allergy if allergies of any type are common in your family.
Though people of any age can develop shellfish allergy, it's more common in adults. In fact, shellfish allergy is the most common food allergy in adults. Among adults, shellfish allergy is more common in women. Among children, shellfish allergy is more common in boys.
Complications for Shellfish allergy:
In severe cases, shellfish allergy can lead to anaphylaxis, a dangerous allergic reaction that can be life-threatening.
When you have shellfish allergy, you may be at increased risk of anaphylaxis if you have:
Asthma
Allergic reactions to very small amounts of shellfish (extreme sensitivity)
History of food-induced anaphylaxis
Strong family history of allergy
Anaphylaxis is treated with an emergency injection of epinephrine (adrenaline). If you are at risk of having a severe allergic reaction to shellfish, you always should carry injectable epinephrine (Auvi-Q, EpiPen, others).
Preventions for Shellfish allergy
If you have shellfish allergy, the only way to avoid an allergic reaction is to avoid all shellfish and products that contain shellfish. Even trace amounts of shellfish can cause a severe reaction in some people.
Condition name:Shigella infection
Overview of Shigella infection:
Shigella infection is an illness that affects the intestine. Another name for it is shigellosis. It's caused by a group of germs called shigella bacteria.
Children under age 5 are most likely to get shigella infection. But the illness can happen at any age. The germs that cause it spread easily through an infected person's stool. The germs can get on fingers, on surfaces, or into food or water. Infection happens after the germs are swallowed.
The main symptom of shigella infection is diarrhea that can be bloody or long lasting. Other symptoms can include fever and stomach pain.
Most often, shigella infection clears up on its own within a week. Treatment for serious illness may include medicines called antibiotics that get rid of the germs.
Help prevent shigella infection by washing hands often, especially after changing a diaper or using the bathroom. And if you swim in ponds, lakes or swimming pools, try not to swallow the water.
There are no home remedies available for Shigella infection in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Shigella infection :
Symptoms of shigella infection usually start a day or two after contact with the germs that cause it. Sometimes, the illness takes up to a week to start.
Symptoms can include:
Diarrhea that may contain blood or mucus, and that may last more than three days.
Stomach pain or cramps.
A feeling of needing to pass stool even when the bowel is empty.
Fever.
Upset stomach or vomiting.
Symptoms tend to last up to seven days. Sometimes they last longer. Some people have no symptoms after they've been infected with shigella. But the germs may be able to spread through the stool for up to a few weeks.
Causes for Shigella infection :
Shigella infection is caused by swallowing shigella bacteria. This can happen when you:
Touch your mouth. This poses a risk because there are many ways for shigella germs to get on your hands. You might change the diaper of a child who has shigella infection. Or you might touch an object that has germs on it, such as a toy or changing table. The germs also can spread from hand to mouth during sexual contact with someone who has the infection.
Eat tainted food. A person with a shigella infection who handles food can spread the germs to people who eat the food. Food also can become tainted if it grows in a field that contains sewage.
Swallow tainted water. Water can become tainted with shigella germs from sewage. Water also can become tainted if a person with shigella infection swims in it.
Risk Factors for Shigella infection:
Risk factors for shigella infection include the following:
Being a child. Children under age 5 are most likely to get shigella infection. But people of any age can get the illness.
Living in group housing or doing group activities. Close contact with other people can spread the germs from person to person. Shigella outbreaks are more common in child care centers, schools, public pools, water parks and nursing homes.
Living or traveling in areas that lack clean water and sewage disposal services. People who live or travel in developing countries are more likely to get shigella infection.
Sexual contact that involves the anus. Shigella germs can spread from the stool or soiled fingers of one partner to the mouth of another partner. This puts men who have sex with men at higher risk of shigella infection.
Experiencing homelessness. This may involve staying in crowded areas or having less access to clean water and toilets. That can raise the risk of infection when shigella germs are spread through the community.
Having a weakened immune system. This raises the risk of more-serious shigella infection. The immune system may be weakened from health conditions such as HIV or from treatments such as chemotherapy.
Complications for Shigella infection:
It may take weeks or months before you return to your typical bowel habits. And most often, shigella infection clears up without leading to other health conditions called complications.
Preventions for Shigella infection
Take the following steps to help prevent shigella infection:
Wash hands often. Use soap and water, and scrub for at least 20 seconds. This is key before you prepare or eat food, and before sexual activity. It's also important to wash after you use the bathroom or change a diaper.
Throw away soiled diapers in a covered, lined garbage can.
Disinfect diaper-changing areas right after use, especially if the diaper leaks or spills.
Try not to swallow water from ponds, lakes or untreated pools.
Do not have sexual contact with anyone who has diarrhea or who recently recovered from diarrhea. Wait at least two weeks.
If you or your child has diarrhea or a known shigella infection, take these steps to prevent spreading germs:
Keep washing hands often. And watch small children when they wash their hands.
Don't prepare food for others if possible.
Stay home from healthcare, food service or child care jobs while sick.
Keep children with diarrhea home from child care, play groups or school.
Don't go swimming until you have fully recovered.
Condition name:Short bowel syndrome
Overview of Short bowel syndrome:
Short bowel syndrome is a condition in which the body cannot absorb enough nutrients from foods because part of the small intestine is missing or damaged.
The small intestine is where most of the nutrients you eat are absorbed into your body during digestion.
Short bowel syndrome can happen when:
Parts of the small intestine have been surgically removed. Conditions that may require surgical removal of large portions of the small intestine include Crohn's disease, cancer, traumatic injuries and blood clots in the arteries that provide blood to the intestines.
Portions of the small intestine are missing or damaged at birth. Babies may be born with a short small intestine or with a damaged small intestine that must be surgically removed.
Short bowel syndrome treatment typically involves special diets and nutritional supplements. It may involve receiving nutrition through a vein, called parenteral nutrition, to prevent malnutrition.
There are no home remedies available for Short bowel syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Short bowel syndrome :
Common symptoms of short bowel syndrome may include:
Diarrhea.
Greasy, foul-smelling stools.
Fatigue.
Weight loss.
Malnutrition.
Swelling, called edema, in the legs and feet.
Causes for Short bowel syndrome :
Causes of short bowel syndrome include having parts of your small intestine removed during surgery, or being born with some of the small intestine missing or damaged. Conditions that may require surgical removal of portions of the small intestine include Crohn's disease, cancer, injuries and blood clots.
There are no Risk Factors available for Short bowel syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Short bowel syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Short bowel syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sjogren's syndrome
Overview of Sjogren's syndrome:
Sjogren's (SHOW-grins) syndrome is a disorder of your immune system identified by its two most common symptoms — dry eyes and a dry mouth.
The condition often accompanies other immune system disorders, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. In Sjogren's syndrome, the mucous membranes and moisture-secreting glands of your eyes and mouth are usually affected first — resulting in decreased tears and saliva.
Although you can develop Sjogren's syndrome at any age, most people are older than 40 at the time of diagnosis. The condition is much more common in women. Treatment focuses on relieving symptoms.
Home Remedies for Sjogren's syndrome:
Many Sjogren's syndrome symptoms respond well to self-care measures.
To relieve dry eyes:
Use artificial tears, an eye lubricant or both. Artificial tears â€” in eyedrop form â€” and eye lubricants â€” in eyedrop, gel or ointment form â€” help relieve the discomfort of dry eyes. You don't have to apply eye lubricants as often as artificial tears. Because of their thicker consistency, eye lubricants can blur your vision and collect on your eyelashes, so you might want to use them only overnight.
Your doctor might recommend artificial tears without preservatives, which can irritate the eyes of people with dry eye syndrome.
Increase humidity. Increasing the indoor humidity and reducing your exposure to blowing air can help keep your eyes and mouth from getting uncomfortably dry. For example, avoid sitting in front of a fan or air conditioning vent, and wear goggles or protective eyewear when you go outdoors.
To help with dry mouth:
Don't smoke. Smoking can irritate and dry out your mouth.
Increase your fluid intake. Take sips of fluids, particularly water, throughout the day. Avoid drinking coffee or alcohol since they can worsen dry mouth symptoms. Also avoid acidic beverages such as colas and some sports drinks because the acid can harm the enamel of your teeth.
Stimulate saliva flow. Sugarless gum or citrus-flavored hard candies can boost saliva flow. Because Sjogren's syndrome increases your risk of dental cavities, limit sweets, especially between meals.
Try artificial saliva. Saliva replacement products often work better than plain water because they contain a lubricant that helps your mouth stay moist longer. These products come as a spray or lozenge.
Use nasal saline spray. A nasal saline spray can help moisturize and clear nasal passages so that you can breathe freely through your nose. A dry, stuffy nose can increase mouth breathing.
Oral health
Dry mouth increases your risk of dental cavities and tooth loss. To help prevent those types of problems:
Brush your teeth and floss after every meal
Schedule regular dental appointments, at least every six months
Use daily topical fluoride treatments and antimicrobial mouthwashes
Other areas of dryness
If dry skin is a problem, avoid hot water when you bathe and shower. Pat your skin â€” don't rub â€” with a towel, and apply moisturizer when your skin is still damp. Use rubber gloves when doing dishes or housecleaning. Vaginal moisturizers and lubricants help women who have vaginal dryness.
Symptoms for Sjogren's syndrome :
The two main symptoms of Sjogren's syndrome are:
Dry eyes. Your eyes might burn, itch or feel gritty — as if there's sand in them.
Dry mouth. Your mouth might feel like it's full of cotton, making it difficult to swallow or speak.
Some people with Sjogren's syndrome also have one or more of the following:
Joint pain, swelling and stiffness
Swollen salivary glands — particularly the set located behind your jaw and in front of your ears
Skin rashes or dry skin
Vaginal dryness
Persistent dry cough
Prolonged fatigue
Causes for Sjogren's syndrome :
Sjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder. Your immune system mistakenly attacks your body's own cells and tissues.
Scientists aren't certain why some people develop Sjogren's syndrome. Certain genes put people at higher risk of the disorder, but it appears that a triggering mechanism — such as infection with a particular virus or strain of bacteria — is also necessary.
In Sjogren's syndrome, your immune system first targets the glands that make tears and saliva. But it can also damage other parts of your body, such as:
Joints
Thyroid
Kidneys
Liver
Lungs
Skin
Nerves
Risk Factors for Sjogren's syndrome:
Sjogren's syndrome typically occurs in people with one or more known risk factors, including:
Age. Sjogren's syndrome is usually diagnosed in people older than 40.
Sex. Women are much more likely to have Sjogren's syndrome.
Rheumatic disease. It's common for people who have Sjogren's syndrome to also have a rheumatic disease — such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Complications for Sjogren's syndrome:
The most common complications of Sjogren's syndrome involve your eyes and mouth.
Dental cavities. Because saliva helps protect the teeth from the bacteria that cause cavities, you're more prone to developing cavities if your mouth is dry.
Yeast infections. People with Sjogren's syndrome are much more likely to develop oral thrush, a yeast infection in the mouth.
Vision problems. Dry eyes can lead to light sensitivity, blurred vision and corneal damage.
Less common complications might affect:
Lungs, kidneys or liver. Inflammation can cause pneumonia, bronchitis or other problems in your lungs; lead to problems with kidney function; and cause hepatitis or cirrhosis in your liver.
Lymph nodes. A small percentage of people with Sjogren's syndrome develop cancer of the lymph nodes (lymphoma).
Nerves. You might develop numbness, tingling and burning in your hands and feet (peripheral neuropathy).
There are no preventive measures available for Sjogren's syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Skin cancer
Overview of Skin cancer:
Skin cancer — the abnormal growth of skin cells — most often develops on skin exposed to the sun. But this common form of cancer can also occur on areas of your skin not ordinarily exposed to sunlight.
There are three major types of skin cancer — basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma and melanoma.
You can reduce your risk of skin cancer by limiting or avoiding exposure to ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Checking your skin for suspicious changes can help detect skin cancer at its earliest stages. Early detection of skin cancer gives you the greatest chance for successful skin cancer treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Skin cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Skin cancer :
Not found
Causes for Skin cancer :
Skin cancer occurs when errors (mutations) occur in the DNA of skin cells. The mutations cause the cells to grow out of control and form a mass of cancer cells.
Risk Factors for Skin cancer:
Factors that may increase your risk of skin cancer include:
Fair skin. Anyone, regardless of skin color, can get skin cancer. However, having less pigment (melanin) in your skin provides less protection from damaging UV radiation. If you have blond or red hair and light-colored eyes, and you freckle or sunburn easily, you're much more likely to develop skin cancer than is a person with darker skin.
A history of sunburns. Having had one or more blistering sunburns as a child or teenager increases your risk of developing skin cancer as an adult. Sunburns in adulthood also are a risk factor.
Excessive sun exposure. Anyone who spends considerable time in the sun may develop skin cancer, especially if the skin isn't protected by sunscreen or clothing. Tanning, including exposure to tanning lamps and beds, also puts you at risk. A tan is your skin's injury response to excessive UV radiation.
Sunny or high-altitude climates. People who live in sunny, warm climates are exposed to more sunlight than are people who live in colder climates. Living at higher elevations, where the sunlight is strongest, also exposes you to more radiation.
Moles. People who have many moles or abnormal moles called dysplastic nevi are at increased risk of skin cancer. These abnormal moles — which look irregular and are generally larger than normal moles — are more likely than others to become cancerous. If you have a history of abnormal moles, watch them regularly for changes.
Precancerous skin lesions. Having skin lesions known as actinic keratoses can increase your risk of developing skin cancer. These precancerous skin growths typically appear as rough, scaly patches that range in color from brown to dark pink. They're most common on the face, head and hands of fair-skinned people whose skin has been sun damaged.
A family history of skin cancer. If one of your parents or a sibling has had skin cancer, you may have an increased risk of the disease.
A personal history of skin cancer. If you developed skin cancer once, you're at risk of developing it again.
A weakened immune system. People with weakened immune systems have a greater risk of developing skin cancer. This includes people living with HIV/AIDS and those taking immunosuppressant drugs after an organ transplant.
Exposure to radiation. People who received radiation treatment for skin conditions such as eczema and acne may have an increased risk of skin cancer, particularly basal cell carcinoma.
Exposure to certain substances. Exposure to certain substances, such as arsenic, may increase your risk of skin cancer.
There are no Complications available for Skin cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Skin cancer
Most skin cancers are preventable. To protect yourself, follow these skin cancer prevention tips:
Avoid the sun during the middle of the day. For many people in North America, the sun's rays are strongest between about 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Schedule outdoor activities for other times of the day, even in winter or when the sky is cloudy.
You absorb UV radiation year-round, and clouds offer little protection from damaging rays. Avoiding the sun at its strongest helps you avoid the sunburns and suntans that cause skin damage and increase your risk of developing skin cancer. Sun exposure accumulated over time also may cause skin cancer.
Wear sunscreen year-round. Sunscreens don't filter out all harmful UV radiation, especially the radiation that can lead to melanoma. But they play a major role in an overall sun protection program.
Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring. Use a generous amount of sunscreen on all exposed skin, including your lips, the tips of your ears, and the backs of your hands and neck.
Wear protective clothing. Sunscreens don't provide complete protection from UV rays. So cover your skin with dark, tightly woven clothing that covers your arms and legs, and a broad-brimmed hat, which provides more protection than a baseball cap or visor does.
Some companies also sell photoprotective clothing. A dermatologist can recommend an appropriate brand.
Don't forget sunglasses. Look for those that block both types of UV radiation — UVA and UVB rays.
Avoid tanning beds. Lights used in tanning beds emit UV rays and can increase your risk of skin cancer.
Be aware of sun-sensitizing medications. Some common prescription and over-the-counter drugs, including antibiotics, can make your skin more sensitive to sunlight.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the side effects of any medications you take. If they increase your sensitivity to sunlight, take extra precautions to stay out of the sun in order to protect your skin.
Check your skin regularly and report changes to your doctor. Examine your skin often for new skin growths or changes in existing moles, freckles, bumps and birthmarks.
With the help of mirrors, check your face, neck, ears and scalp. Examine your chest and trunk, and the tops and undersides of your arms and hands. Examine both the front and back of your legs, and your feet, including the soles and the spaces between your toes. Also check your genital area and between your buttocks.
Condition name:Sleep apnea
Overview of Sleep apnea:
Sleep apnea is a potentially serious sleep disorder in which breathing repeatedly stops and starts. If you snore loudly and feel tired even after a full night's sleep, you might have sleep apnea.
The main types of sleep apnea are:
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), which is the more common form that occurs when throat muscles relax and block the flow of air into the lungs
Central sleep apnea (CSA), which occurs when the brain doesn't send proper signals to the muscles that control breathing
Treatment-emergent central sleep apnea, also known as complex sleep apnea, which happens when someone has OSA — diagnosed with a sleep study — that converts to CSA when receiving therapy for OSA
If you think you might have sleep apnea, see your health care provider. Treatment can ease your symptoms and might help prevent heart problems and other complications.
Home Remedies for Sleep apnea:
In some cases, self-care might be a way for you to deal with obstructive sleep apnea and possibly central sleep apnea. Try these tips:
Lose excess weight. Even a slight weight loss might help relieve constriction of your throat. In some cases, sleep apnea can resolve if you return to a healthy weight, but it can recur if you regain the weight.
Exercise. Regular exercise can help ease the symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea even without weight loss. Try to get 30 minutes of moderate activity, such as a brisk walk, most days of the week.
Avoid alcohol and certain medicines such as tranquilizers and sleeping pills. These relax the muscles in the back of your throat, interfering with breathing.
Sleep on your side or abdomen rather than on your back. Sleeping on your back can cause your tongue and soft palate to rest against the back of your throat and block your airway. To keep from rolling onto your back while you sleep, try attaching a tennis ball to the back of your pajama top. There are also commercial devices that vibrate when you roll onto your back in sleep.
Don't smoke. If you're a smoker, look for resources to help you quit.
Symptoms for Sleep apnea :
The symptoms of obstructive and central sleep apneas overlap, sometimes making it difficult to determine which type you have. The most common symptoms of obstructive and central sleep apneas include:
Loud snoring.
Episodes in which you stop breathing during sleep — which would be reported by another person.
Gasping for air during sleep.
Awakening with a dry mouth.
Morning headache.
Difficulty staying asleep, known as insomnia.
Excessive daytime sleepiness, known as hypersomnia.
Difficulty paying attention while awake.
Irritability.
There are no Causes available for Sleep apnea in the knowledge baseRisk Factors for Sleep apnea:
Sleep apnea can affect anyone, even children. But certain factors increase your risk.
Complications for Sleep apnea:
Sleep apnea is a serious medical condition. Complications of OSA can include:
Daytime fatigue. The repeated awakenings associated with sleep apnea make typical, restorative sleep impossible, in turn making severe daytime drowsiness, fatigue and irritability likely.
You might have trouble concentrating and find yourself falling asleep at work, while watching TV or even when driving. People with sleep apnea have an increased risk of motor vehicle and workplace accidents.
You might also feel quick-tempered, moody or depressed. Children and adolescents with sleep apnea might perform poorly in school or have behavior problems.
High blood pressure or heart problems. Sudden drops in blood oxygen levels that occur during OSA increase blood pressure and strain the cardiovascular system. Having OSA increases your risk of high blood pressure, also known as hypertension.
OSA might also increase your risk of recurrent heart attack, stroke and irregular heartbeats, such as atrial fibrillation. If you have heart disease, multiple episodes of low blood oxygen (hypoxia or hypoxemia) can lead to sudden death from an irregular heartbeat.
Type 2 diabetes. Having sleep apnea increases your risk of developing insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
Metabolic syndrome. This disorder, which includes high blood pressure, abnormal cholesterol levels, high blood sugar and an increased waist circumference, is linked to a higher risk of heart disease.
Complications with medicines and surgery. Obstructive sleep apnea is also a concern with certain medicines and general anesthesia. People with sleep apnea might be more likely to have complications after major surgery because they're prone to breathing problems, especially when sedated and lying on their backs.
Before you have surgery, tell your doctor about your sleep apnea and how it's being treated.
Liver problems. People with sleep apnea are more likely to have irregular results on liver function tests, and their livers are more likely to show signs of scarring, known as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.
Sleep-deprived partners. Loud snoring can keep anyone who sleeps nearby from getting good rest. It's common for a partner to have to go to another room, or even to another floor of the house, to be able to sleep.
Complications of CSA can include:
Fatigue. The repeated awakening associated with sleep apnea makes typical, restorative sleep impossible. People with central sleep apnea often have severe fatigue, daytime drowsiness and irritability.
You might have difficulty concentrating and find yourself falling asleep at work, while watching television or even while driving.
Cardiovascular problems. Sudden drops in blood oxygen levels that occur during central sleep apnea can adversely affect heart health.
If there's underlying heart disease, these repeated multiple episodes of low blood oxygen — known as hypoxia or hypoxemia — worsen prognosis and increase the risk of irregular heart rhythms.
There are no preventive measures available for Sleep apnea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sleep disorders
Overview of Sleep disorders:
Sleep disorders are conditions that change the way you sleep. If you have a sleep disorder, you may not get enough sleep or you may not feel rested when you wake up. You may be very sleepy during the daytime. You may have changes in breathing or move around a lot during sleep. Or you may have problems getting to sleep, staying asleep or waking too early.
A sleep disorder can affect your overall health, safety and quality of life. Not getting a good night's sleep can affect your ability to drive or work safely. It also can raise your risk of other health problems. But treatment can help you get the sleep you need.
There are no home remedies available for Sleep disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sleep disorders :
Symptoms of common sleep disorders include:
Being very sleepy during the daytime. You may fall asleep at times that aren't typical, such as while driving or while working at your desk.
Trouble falling asleep, waking up during the night and not being able to go back to sleep. Or you may wake up too early.
Breathing in a pattern that isn't typical. This may include snoring, snorting, gasping, choking or pausing during breathing.
Feeling an urge to move that is not comfortable while you're trying to fall asleep. Your legs or arms may feel tingly or crawly.
Moving too much or having movements that bother you during sleep, such as arm and leg movements or teeth grinding.
Activities during sleep that are not usual, such as sleepwalking, sleep-eating or bed-wetting.
Causes for Sleep disorders :
There are many different types of sleep disorders, and the causes vary widely. Sleep disorders are often grouped according to why they happen or their effects. Sleep disorders also can be grouped based on behaviors, problems with your natural sleep-wake cycles, breathing problems, difficulty sleeping or how sleepy you feel during the day.
Sometimes the exact cause is not known, but several factors can increase the risk of having a sleep disorder.
Risk Factors for Sleep disorders:
These issues can raise the risk of sleep disorders:
Age. Sleep varies depending on age, and age may play a role in sleep disorders. Some sleep disorders, such as bed-wetting, may be more common in children. Other sleep disorders are more common with older age.
Genetics. Having some sleep disorders, such as insomnia, restless leg syndrome, sleepwalking, and sleep apnea, may be more likely if a family member also has them.
Medical conditions. Brain and nerve conditions, such as Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis and traumatic brain injury, may raise the risk of sleep disorders. Heart disease, lung disease, cancer, diabetes and chronic pain are linked with insomnia. Being overweight raises the risk of obstructive sleep apnea. Heart failure and atrial fibrillation raise the risk of central sleep apnea.
Mental health conditions. Stress, depression, anxiety and other mental health conditions may affect sleep.
Schedule changes. Jet lag or shift work can change your sleep-wake cycle and disrupt sleep.
Medicines and drugs. Certain medicines, caffeine, alcohol, and legal or illegal drugs that may be sold on the streets, also called recreational drugs, can affect sleep.
Complications for Sleep disorders:
Untreated sleep disorders are linked with serious complications. These can include a higher risk or worsening of medical conditions such as heart disease, stroke and diabetes. Sleep disorders also can affect mental health. And ongoing insomnia can raise the risk of suicidal thoughts and behavior.
Sleep disorders can affect your quality of life. Excessive daytime sleepiness can make it hard to focus and pay attention. This can impact driving safety, workplace errors and how well you do in school.
There are no preventive measures available for Sleep disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sleep terrors (night terrors)
Overview of Sleep terrors (night terrors):
Sleep terrors are times of screaming or crying, intense fear, and sometimes waving arms and legs when not fully awake. Also known as night terrors, sleep terrors may lead to sleepwalking. Like sleepwalking, sleep terrors are a type of parasomnia. Parasomnias are disturbing or strange behaviors or experiences during sleep. A sleep terror usually lasts from seconds to a few minutes, but it may last longer.
Sleep terrors may happen in children between the ages of 1 and 12 years. They happen much less often in adults. Although sleep terrors can be frightening to those around the person with sleep terrors, they aren't usually a cause for concern. Most children outgrow sleep terrors by their teenage years.
Sleep terrors may need treatment if they cause problems with getting enough sleep or cause a safety risk.
Home Remedies for Sleep terrors (night terrors):
If sleep terrors are a problem for you or your child, here are some tips:
Get enough sleep. Extreme tiredness can contribute to sleep terrors. If you're not getting enough sleep, try an earlier bedtime and a more regular sleep schedule. Sometimes a short nap may help. If possible, avoid noises or other stimuli that could interrupt sleep.
Establish a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. Do quiet, calming activities before bed. Read books, do puzzles or soak in a warm bath. Meditation or relaxation exercises may help too. Make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep. Avoid caffeine close to bedtime.
Make the area safe. To help prevent injury, close and lock all windows and outside doors at night. You might even lock inside doors or put alarms or bells on them. Block doorways or stairways with a gate. Move electrical cords or other objects that might be a tripping hazard. Don't use bunk beds, if possible. Place any sharp or fragile objects out of reach. Also, lock up all weapons.
Put stress in its place. Identify the things that cause stress. Think of ways to handle the stress. If your child seems anxious or stressed, talk about what's bothering your child. A mental health professional can help.
Offer comfort. If your child has a sleep terror, consider simply waiting it out. It may be upsetting to watch, but it won't harm your child. You might cuddle and gently soothe your child. Then try to get your child back into bed. Speak softly and calmly. Don't shout. Trying to wake your child or keep your child from moving may make things worse. Usually the event will shortly stop on its own.
Look for a pattern. If your child has sleep terrors, keep a sleep diary. For a few weeks, note how many minutes after bedtime a sleep terror occurs. If the timing is fairly consistent, anticipatory awakenings may help.
Symptoms for Sleep terrors (night terrors) :
Sleep terrors differ from nightmares. A nightmare is a bad dream. The person who has a nightmare wakes up from the dream and may remember details. A person who has a sleep terror remains asleep. Children usually don't remember anything about their sleep terrors in the morning. Adults may recall part of a dream they had during the sleep terrors.
Sleep terrors generally happen in the first part of sleep time, and rarely during naps. A sleep terror may lead to sleepwalking.
During a sleep terror, a person may:
Start by screaming, shouting or crying.
Sit up in bed and look scared.
Stare wide-eyed.
Sweat, breathe heavily, and have a racing pulse, flushed face and enlarged pupils.
Kick and thrash.
Be hard to wake up and be confused if awakened.
Not be comforted or soothed.
Have no or little memory of the event the next morning.
Possibly, get out of bed and run around the house or have aggressive behavior if blocked or held back.
Causes for Sleep terrors (night terrors) :
Sleep terrors are a type of parasomnia. A parasomnia is a disturbing or strange behavior or experience during sleep. People who have sleep terrors don't completely wake up from sleep during the episodes. Their appearance may suggest they are awake, but they remain partially asleep.
Several issues can contribute to sleep terrors, such as:
Serious lack of sleep and extreme tiredness.
Stress.
Sleep schedule changes, travel or sleep interruptions.
Fever.
Sleep terrors sometimes can be triggered by conditions that interfere with sleep, such as:
Sleep-disordered breathing — a group of disorders that include breathing patterns that are not typical during sleep. The most common type of sleep-disordered breathing is obstructive sleep apnea.
Restless legs syndrome.
Some medicines.
Mood disorders, such as depression and anxiety.
Alcohol use.
Risk Factors for Sleep terrors (night terrors):
Sleep terrors are more common if family members have a history of sleep terrors or sleepwalking.
Complications for Sleep terrors (night terrors):
Some complications that may result from sleep terrors include:
Being too sleepy during the day, which can lead to problems at school or work or with everyday tasks.
Disturbed sleep.
Embarrassment about the sleep terrors or problems with relationships.
Injury to the person having a sleep terror or, rarely, to someone nearby.
There are no preventive measures available for Sleep terrors (night terrors) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sleepwalking
Overview of Sleepwalking:
Sleepwalking, also known as somnambulism, is when people get up and walk around while asleep. It's more common in children than adults. Children usually outgrow sleepwalking by the teen years. Sleepwalking that happens once in a while often isn't a serious problem and doesn't need treatment. But sleepwalking that happens a lot may suggest an underlying sleep disorder.
Sleepwalking in adults is more likely to be confused with, or happen as part of, other sleep disorders. Medical conditions also can cause people to walk in their sleep.
If people in your household sleepwalk, it's important to take steps to help prevent them from getting injured while sleepwalking.
Home Remedies for Sleepwalking:
If sleepwalking is a problem for you or your child, try to:
Make the environment safe. If sleepwalking has led to injuries or may do so, take precautions. Close and lock all windows and exterior doors before bedtime. You might even lock interior doors or place alarms or bells on the doors. Block doorways or stairways with a gate. Move electrical cords and other tripping hazards out of the way. Sleep in a ground-floor bedroom, if possible. Place sharp or fragile objects out of reach, and lock up all weapons. If your child sleepwalks, avoid bunk beds for sleeping.
Gently lead people who sleepwalk to bed. You don't need to wake them up. Although it isn't dangerous to be awakened, it can be disruptive if they become confused and possibly agitated.
Get enough sleep. Being very tired can lead to sleepwalking. If you don't get enough sleep â€” at least seven hours each night â€” try to go to bed earlier or take up a more regular sleep schedule. Or take a short nap, which is especially helpful for toddlers. If possible, avoid noises while sleeping or anything else that could interrupt sleep.
Have a regular, relaxing routine before bedtime. Do quiet, calming activities before bed, such as reading books, doing puzzles or soaking in a warm bath. Meditation or relaxation exercises may help too. Make the bedroom comfortable and quiet for sleep.
Put stress in its place. Identify the issues that cause stress and ways to handle the stress. Talk about what's bothering you. Or if your child sleepwalks and seems anxious or stressed, talk with your child about any concerns. A mental health professional can help.
Look for a pattern. For several nights, note â€• or have another person in your home note â€• how many minutes after bedtime a bout of sleepwalking occurs. If the timing is fairly consistent, this information could help plan anticipatory awakenings.
Stay away from alcohol. Drinking alcohol can interfere with a good night's sleep and may cause sleepwalking.
Symptoms for Sleepwalking :
Sleepwalking usually occurs early in the night — often 1 to 2 hours after falling asleep. It isn't likely to happen during naps, but it is possible. A bout of sleepwalking can occur rarely or often. A bout generally lasts several minutes, but it can last longer.
People who sleepwalk may:
Get out of bed and walk around.
Sit up in bed and open their eyes.
Have a glazed, glassy-eyed expression.
Not respond or talk to others.
Be hard to wake up.
Be confused for a short time after waking up.
Not remember in the morning that they sleepwalked.
Have problems functioning during the day because of disturbed sleep.
Also have sleep terrors that cause screaming and waving of arms and legs.
Sometimes, people who sleepwalk will:
Do routine activities, such as getting dressed, talking or eating.
Leave the house.
Drive a car.
Take part in unusual behavior, such as passing urine in a closet.
Take part in sexual activity without being aware of it.
Get injured, such as by falling down the stairs or jumping out a window.
Become violent while briefly confused after waking up or once in a while sleepwalking.
Causes for Sleepwalking :
Sleepwalking is classified as a parasomnia — an undesirable behavior or event during sleep. Sleepwalking is a disorder of arousal. This means it occurs during N3 sleep, the deepest stage of non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep. Another NREM disorder is sleep terrors, which can occur with sleepwalking.
Many factors can lead to sleepwalking, including:
Not getting enough sleep.
Stress.
Fever.
Sleep schedule disruptions, travel or sleep interruptions.
Sometimes underlying conditions that affect sleep can cause sleepwalking, such as:
Sleep-disordered breathing — a group of disorders featuring unusual breathing patterns during sleep, such as obstructive sleep apnea.
Taking certain medicines, such as hypnotics, sedatives or some medicines used for mental health conditions.
Substance use, such as alcohol.
Restless legs syndrome.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD).
Risk Factors for Sleepwalking:
Factors that may raise the risk of sleepwalking include:
Genetics. Sleepwalking appears to run in families. It's more common if one parent has a history of sleepwalking, and much more common if both parents have a history of the sleep disorder.
Age. Sleepwalking occurs more often in children than adults. When it starts in an adult, it's more likely related to other underlying conditions.
Complications for Sleepwalking:
Sleepwalking itself isn't necessarily a concern, but people who sleepwalk can:
Get hurt, especially if they walk near furniture or stairs, wander outdoors, drive a car, or eat something that shouldn't be eaten while sleepwalking.
Have a sleep disruption that lasts a long time, which can lead to being very tired during the day and possible school or behavioral issues.
Be very embarrassed about their actions.
Disturb others' sleep.
Rarely, people who sleepwalk can injure someone else nearby.
There are no preventive measures available for Sleepwalking in the knowledge baseCondition name:Small bowel cancer
Overview of Small bowel cancer:
Small bowel cancer is a type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the small intestine. The small intestine, also called the small bowel, is a long tube that carries digested food between the stomach and the large intestine.
The small intestine digests and absorbs nutrients from the foods you eat. It produces hormones that help with digestion. The small intestine also plays a role in the body's germ-fighting immune system. It contains cells that fight bacteria and viruses that enter the body through the mouth.
Small bowel cancer treatment usually involves surgery to remove the cancer. Other treatments include chemotherapy and targeted therapy, which use medicines to kill cancer cells. Radiation therapy also may be used to shrink the cancer before surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Small bowel cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Small bowel cancer :
Symptoms of small bowel cancer include:
Abdominal pain.
Yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes, called jaundice.
Feeling very weak or tired.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Losing weight without trying.
Blood in the stool, which might look red or black.
Watery diarrhea.
Skin flushing.
Causes for Small bowel cancer :
The cause of small bowel cancer isn't known. What's known is that something happens to cells in the small bowel that changes them into cancer cells.
Small bowel cancer happens when cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This causes too many cells. The cells might form a mass called a tumor. The cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Risk Factors for Small bowel cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of small bowel cancer include:
DNA changes that run in families. Some DNA changes that are passed down from your parents can increase your risk of small bowel cancer and other cancers. Examples include Lynch syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, also called FAP, and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome.
Other bowel diseases. Other diseases and conditions that affect the intestines may increase the risk of small bowel cancer. These may include Crohn's disease, inflammatory bowel disease and celiac disease.
Weakened immune system. If your body's germ-fighting immune system is weakened, you may have an increased risk of small bowel cancer. Examples include people with HIV infection and those who take medicine to control the immune system after an organ transplant.
What you eat and drink. Some studies have found a higher risk of small bowel cancer in those who eat and drink certain things. For example, the risk seems to be associated with drinking alcohol and eating a diet that's low in fiber and high in red meat, sugar, and salt-cured and smoked foods.
Complications for Small bowel cancer:
Small bowel cancer can cause complications, including:
An increased risk of other cancers. People who have small bowel cancer run a higher risk of having other types of cancers. These may include those that affect the colon, rectum, ovaries and the lining of the uterus, called the endometrium.
Cancer that spreads to other parts of the body. Advanced small bowel cancer can spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer. Small bowel cancer most often spreads to the liver.
Preventions for Small bowel cancer
It's not clear what may help to reduce the risk of small bowel cancer. If you're interested in reducing your risk of cancer in general, it may help to:
Eat a variety of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Fruits, vegetables and whole grains contain vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants, which may help reduce your risk of cancer and other diseases. Choose a variety of fruits and vegetables so that you get different vitamins and nutrients.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Stop smoking. Talk to a health care professional about ways to quit that may work for you.
Exercise most days of the week. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days. If you've been inactive, start slowly and build up gradually to 30 minutes. Also, talk to your health care team before starting any exercise program.
Maintain a healthy weight. If you are at a healthy weight, work to maintain your weight by combining a healthy diet with daily exercise. If you need to lose weight, ask your health care team about healthy ways to achieve your goal. Aim to lose weight slowly by increasing the amount of exercise you get and reducing the number of calories you eat.
Condition name:Small bowel prolapse (enterocele)
Overview of Small bowel prolapse (enterocele):
Small bowel prolapse, also called enterocele (EN-tur-o-seel), occurs when the small intestine (small bowel) descends into the lower pelvic cavity and pushes at the top part of the vagina, creating a bulge. The word "prolapse" means to slip or fall out of place.
Childbirth, aging and other processes that put pressure on your pelvic floor may weaken the muscles and ligaments that support pelvic organs, making small bowel prolapse more likely to occur.
To manage small bowel prolapse, self-care measures and other nonsurgical options are often effective. In severe cases, you may need surgery to fix the prolapse.
Home Remedies for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele):
Depending on the severity of your condition, these self-care measures may provide the symptom relief you need:
Perform Kegel exercises to strengthen pelvic muscles and support weakened vaginal tissues.
Avoid constipation by drinking plenty of fluids and eating high-fiber foods, such as whole grains, and fresh fruits and vegetables.
Avoid heavy lifting.
Try to control coughing.
Lose weight if you're overweight or obese.
Avoid bearing down to move your bowels. Rely on your natural colorectal function to empty your lower bowel.
Quit smoking.
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises strengthen your pelvic floor muscles, which, in part, support the uterus, bladder and bowel. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for your pelvic organs, prevents prolapse from worsening and relieves symptoms associated with pelvic organ prolapse.
To perform Kegel exercises, follow these steps:
Tighten (contract) your pelvic floor muscles â€” the muscles you use to stop urinating.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, then relax for five seconds. (If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.)
Work up to holding the contraction for 10 seconds at a time.
Aim for at least three sets of 10 repetitions each day.
Ask your doctor for feedback on whether you're using the right muscles. Kegel exercises may be most successful when they're taught by a physical therapist and reinforced with biofeedback. Biofeedback involves using monitoring devices that help ensure you're tightening the proper muscles, with optimal intensity and length of time.
Once you've learned the proper method, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether you're sitting at your desk or relaxing on the couch.
Symptoms for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele) :
Mild small bowel prolapse may produce no signs or symptoms. However, if you have significant prolapse, you might experience:
A pulling sensation in your pelvis that eases when you lie down
A feeling of pelvic fullness, pressure or pain
Low back pain that eases when you lie down
A soft bulge of tissue in your vagina
Vaginal discomfort and painful intercourse (dyspareunia)
Many women with small bowel prolapse also experience prolapse of other pelvic organs, such as the bladder, uterus or rectum.
Causes for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele) :
Increased pressure on the pelvic floor is the main reason for any form of pelvic organ prolapse. Conditions and activities that can cause or contribute to small bowel prolapse or other types of prolapse include:
Pregnancy and childbirth
Chronic constipation or straining with bowel movements
Chronic cough or bronchitis
Repeated heavy lifting
Being overweight or obese
Risk Factors for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele):
Factors that increase your risk of developing small bowel prolapse include:
Pregnancy and childbirth. Vaginal delivery of one or more children contributes to the weakening of your pelvic floor support structures, increasing your risk of prolapse. The more pregnancies you have, the greater your risk of developing any type of pelvic organ prolapse. Women who have only cesarean deliveries are less likely to develop prolapse.
Age. Small bowel prolapse and other types of pelvic organ prolapse occur more often with increasing age. As you get older, you tend to lose muscle mass and muscle strength — in your pelvic muscles as well as other muscles.
Pelvic surgery. Removal of your uterus (hysterectomy) or surgical procedures to treat incontinence may increase your risk of developing small bowel prolapse.
Increased abdominal pressure. Being overweight increases pressure inside your abdomen, which increases your risk of developing small bowel prolapse. Other factors that increase pressure include ongoing (chronic) cough and straining during bowel movements.
Smoking. Smoking is associated with developing prolapse because smokers frequently cough, increasing abdominal pressure.
Race. For unknown reasons, Hispanic and white women are at higher risk of developing pelvic organ prolapse.
Connective tissue disorders. You may be genetically prone to prolapse due to weaker connective tissues in your pelvic area, making you naturally more susceptible to small bowel prolapse and other types of pelvic organ prolapse.
There are no Complications available for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele) in the knowledge basePreventions for Small bowel prolapse (enterocele)
You may be able to lower your chances of small bowel prolapse with these strategies:
Maintain a healthy weight. If you're overweight, losing some weight can decrease the pressure inside your abdomen.
Prevent constipation. Eat high-fiber foods, drink plenty of fluids and exercise regularly to help prevent having to strain during bowel movements.
Treat a chronic cough. Constant coughing increases abdominal pressure. See your doctor to ask about treatment if you have an ongoing (chronic) cough.
Quit smoking. Smoking contributes to chronic coughing.
Avoid heavy lifting. Lifting heavy objects increases abdominal pressure.
Condition name:Smallpox
Overview of Smallpox:
Smallpox is a serious and often deadly viral infection. It's contagious — meaning it spreads from person to person — and can cause permanent scarring. Sometimes, it causes disfigurement.
Smallpox has affected humans for thousands of years but was wiped out worldwide by 1980 thanks to smallpox vaccines. It's no longer found naturally in the world. The last case of naturally occurring smallpox was reported in 1977.
Samples of smallpox virus have been kept for research purposes. And scientific advances have made it possible to create smallpox in a lab. This has led to concerns that smallpox could someday be used as a bioweapon.
Vaccines can prevent smallpox, but because most people are unlikely to come in contact with smallpox naturally, routine vaccination isn't recommended. New antiviral medications can be used to treat people who develop smallpox.
There are no home remedies available for Smallpox in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Smallpox :
The first symptoms of smallpox usually appear 12 to 14 days after you're exposed to the smallpox virus. However, the virus can be in your body from 7 to 19 days before you look or feel sick. This time is called the incubation period.
After the incubation period, sudden flu-like symptoms occur. These include:
Fever
Muscle aches
Headache
Severe fatigue
Severe back pain
Vomiting, sometimes
A few days later, flat, red spots appear on the body. They may start in the mouth and on the tongue and then spread to the skin. The face, arms and legs are often affected first, followed by the torso, hands and feet.
Within a day or two, many of the spots turn into small blisters filled with clear fluid. Later, the blisters fill with pus. These sores are called pustules. Scabs form 8 to 9 days later and eventually fall off, leaving deep, pitted scars.
Smallpox can be spread from person to person when the rash appears and until the scabs fall off.
Causes for Smallpox :
Smallpox is caused by the variola virus. The virus can spread:
Directly from person to person. You can catch the smallpox virus by being around someone who has it. An infected person can spread the virus when they cough, sneeze or talk. Coming in contact with skin sores also can cause you to get smallpox.
Indirectly from an infected person. Rarely, smallpox can spread through the air inside buildings, infecting people in other rooms or on other floors.
Through contaminated items. Smallpox can also spread through contact with contaminated clothing and bedding. But getting smallpox this way is less likely.
As a terrorist weapon, potentially. Using smallpox as a weapon is an unlikely threat. But because releasing the virus could spread the disease quickly, governments are preparing for this possibility.
There are no Risk Factors available for Smallpox in the knowledge baseComplications for Smallpox:
Most people who get smallpox survive. However, some rare types of smallpox are almost always deadly. These more-severe forms are most common in pregnant women and children.
People who recover from smallpox usually have severe scars, especially on the face, arms and legs. Sometimes, smallpox causes vision loss (blindness).
Preventions for Smallpox
If a smallpox outbreak happened, people with smallpox would be isolated to try to stop the spread of the virus. Anyone who had contact with someone who had smallpox would need a smallpox vaccine. A vaccine can protect you from getting sick or cause you to get less sick if you get smallpox. The vaccine should be given before or one week after exposure to the virus.
Two vaccines are available:
The ACAM2000 vaccine uses a live virus that's like smallpox, but less harmful. It can sometimes cause serious side effects, such as infections in the heart or brain. That's why the vaccine is not given to everyone. Unless there is a smallpox outbreak, the risks of the vaccine outweigh the benefits for most people.
A second vaccine (Jynneos) uses a very weakened strain of virus and is safer than ACAM2000. It can be used in people who can't take ACAM2000 due to compromised immune systems or skin disorders.
Smallpox vaccines also provide protection against other similar viral infections such as mpox, also known as monkeypox, and cowpox.
Condition name:Snoring
Overview of Snoring:
Snoring is the hoarse or harsh sound that occurs when air flows past relaxed tissues in your throat, causing the tissues to vibrate as you breathe. Nearly everyone snores now and then, but for some people it can be a chronic problem. Sometimes it may also indicate a serious health condition. In addition, snoring can be a nuisance to your partner.
Lifestyle changes, such as losing weight, avoiding alcohol close to bedtime or sleeping on your side, can help stop snoring.
In addition, medical devices and surgery are available that may reduce disruptive snoring. However, these aren't suitable or necessary for everyone who snores.
Home Remedies for Snoring:
To prevent or quiet snoring, try these tips:
If you're overweight, lose weight. People who are overweight may have extra tissues in the throat that contribute to snoring. Losing weight can help reduce snoring.
Sleep on your side. Lying on your back allows your tongue to fall backward into your throat, narrowing your airway and partially obstructing airflow. Try sleeping on your side. If you find that you always end up on your back in the middle of the night, try sewing a tennis ball in the back of your pajama top.
Raise the head of your bed. Raising the head of your bed by about 4 inches may help.
Nasal strips or an external nasal dilator. Adhesive strips applied to the bridge of the nose help many people increase the area of their nasal passage, enhancing their breathing. A nasal dilator is a stiffened adhesive strip applied externally across the nostrils that may help decrease airflow resistance so you breathe easier. Nasal strips and external nasal dilators aren't effective for people with OSA, however.
Treat nasal congestion or obstruction. Having allergies or a deviated septum can limit airflow through your nose. This forces you to breathe through your mouth, increasing the likelihood of snoring.
Ask your doctor about a prescription steroid spray if you have chronic congestion. To correct a structural defect in your airway, such as a deviated septum, you may need surgery.
Limit or avoid alcohol and sedatives. Avoid drinking alcoholic beverages at least two hours before bedtime, and let your doctor know about your snoring before taking sedatives. Sedatives and alcohol depress your central nervous system, causing excessive relaxation of muscles, including the tissues in your throat.
Quit smoking. Smoking cessation may reduce snoring, in addition to having numerous other health benefits.
Get enough sleep. Adults should aim for at least seven hours of sleep per night. The recommended hours of sleep for children vary by age. Preschool-aged children should get 10 to 13 hours a day. School-age children need nine to 12 hours a day, and teens should have eight to 10 hours a day.
Symptoms for Snoring :
Snoring is often associated with a sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Not all snorers have OSA, but if snoring is accompanied by any of the following symptoms, it may be an indication to see a doctor for further evaluation for OSA:
Witnessed breathing pauses during sleep
Excessive daytime sleepiness
Difficulty concentrating
Morning headaches
Sore throat upon awakening
Restless sleep
Gasping or choking at night
High blood pressure
Chest pain at night
Your snoring is so loud it's disrupting your partner's sleep
In children, poor attention span, behavioral issues or poor performance in school
OSA often is characterized by loud snoring followed by periods of silence when breathing stops or nearly stops. Eventually, this reduction or pause in breathing may signal you to wake up, and you may awaken with a loud snort or gasping sound.
You may sleep lightly due to disrupted sleep. This pattern of breathing pauses may be repeated many times during the night.
People with obstructive sleep apnea usually experience periods when breathing slows or stops at least five times during every hour of sleep.
Causes for Snoring :
Snoring can be caused by a number of factors, such as the anatomy of your mouth and sinuses, alcohol consumption, allergies, a cold, and your weight.
When you doze off and progress from a light sleep to a deep sleep, the muscles in the roof of your mouth (soft palate), tongue and throat relax. The tissues in your throat can relax enough that they partially block your airway and vibrate.
The more narrowed your airway, the more forceful the airflow becomes. This increases tissue vibration, which causes your snoring to grow louder.
The following conditions can affect the airway and cause snoring:
Your mouth anatomy. Having a low, thick soft palate can narrow your airway. People who are overweight may have extra tissues in the back of their throats that may narrow their airways. Likewise, if the triangular piece of tissue hanging from the soft palate (uvula) is elongated, airflow can be obstructed and vibration increased.
Alcohol consumption. Snoring can also be brought on by consuming too much alcohol before bedtime. Alcohol relaxes throat muscles and decreases your natural defenses against airway obstruction.
Nasal problems. Chronic nasal congestion or a crooked partition between your nostrils (deviated nasal septum) may contribute to your snoring.
Sleep deprivation. Not getting enough sleep can lead to further throat relaxation.
Sleep position. Snoring is typically most frequent and loudest when sleeping on the back as gravity's effect on the throat narrows the airway.
Risk Factors for Snoring:
Risk factors that may contribute to snoring include:
Being a man. Men are more likely to snore or have sleep apnea than are women.
Being overweight. People who are overweight or obese are more likely to snore or have obstructive sleep apnea.
Having a narrow airway. Some people may have a long soft palate, or large tonsils or adenoids, which can narrow the airway and cause snoring.
Drinking alcohol. Alcohol relaxes your throat muscles, increasing the risk of snoring.
Having nasal problems. If you have a structural defect in your airway, such as a deviated septum, or your nose is chronically congested, your risk of snoring is greater.
Having a family history of snoring or obstructive sleep apnea. Heredity is a potential risk factor for OSA.
Complications for Snoring:
Habitual snoring may be more than just a nuisance. Aside from disrupting a bed partner's sleep, if snoring is associated with OSA, you may be at risk for other complications, including:
Daytime sleepiness
Frequent frustration or anger
Difficulty concentrating
A greater risk of high blood pressure, heart conditions and stroke
An increased risk of behavior problems, such as aggression or learning problems, in children with OSA
An increased risk of motor vehicle accidents due to lack of sleep
There are no preventive measures available for Snoring in the knowledge baseCondition name:Social anxiety disorder (social phobia)
Overview of Social anxiety disorder (social phobia):
It's normal to feel nervous in some social situations. For example, going on a date or giving a presentation may cause that feeling of butterflies in your stomach. But in social anxiety disorder, also called social phobia, everyday interactions cause significant anxiety, self-consciousness and embarrassment because you fear being scrutinized or judged negatively by others.
In social anxiety disorder, fear and anxiety lead to avoidance that can disrupt your life. Severe stress can affect your relationships, daily routines, work, school or other activities.
Social anxiety disorder can be a chronic mental health condition, but learning coping skills in psychotherapy and taking medications can help you gain confidence and improve your ability to interact with others.
Home Remedies for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia):
Although social anxiety disorder generally requires help from a medical expert or qualified psychotherapist, you can try some of these techniques to handle situations that are likely to trigger symptoms:
Learn stress-reduction skills.
Get physical exercise or be physically active on a regular basis.
Get enough sleep.
Eat a healthy, well-balanced diet.
Avoid alcohol.
Limit or avoid caffeine.
Participate in social situations by reaching out to people with whom you feel comfortable.
Practice in small steps
First, consider your fears to identify what situations cause the most anxiety. Then gradually practice these activities until they cause you less anxiety. Begin with small steps by setting daily or weekly goals in situations that aren't overwhelming. The more you practice, the less anxious you'll feel.
Consider practicing these situations:
Eat with a close relative, friend or acquaintance in a public setting.
Purposefully make eye contact and return greetings from others, or be the first to say hello.
Give someone a compliment.
Ask a retail clerk to help you find an item.
Get directions from a stranger.
Show an interest in others â€” ask about their homes, children, grandchildren, hobbies or travels, for instance.
Call a friend to make plans.
Prepare for social situations
At first, being social when you're feeling anxious is challenging. As difficult or painful as it may seem initially, don't avoid situations that trigger your symptoms. By regularly facing these kinds of situations, you'll continue to build and reinforce your coping skills.
These strategies can help you begin to face situations that make you nervous:
Prepare for conversation, for example, by reading about current events to identify interesting stories you can talk about.
Focus on personal qualities you like about yourself.
Practice relaxation exercises.
Learn stress management techniques.
Set realistic social goals.
Pay attention to how often the embarrassing situations you're afraid of actually take place. You may notice that the scenarios you fear usually don't come to pass.
When embarrassing situations do happen, remind yourself that your feelings will pass and you can handle them until they do. Most people around you either don't notice or don't care as much as you think, or they're more forgiving than you assume.
Avoid using alcohol to calm your nerves. It may seem like it helps temporarily, but in the long term it can make you feel even more anxious.
Symptoms for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) :
Feelings of shyness or discomfort in certain situations aren't necessarily signs of social anxiety disorder, particularly in children. Comfort levels in social situations vary, depending on personality traits and life experiences. Some people are naturally reserved and others are more outgoing.
In contrast to everyday nervousness, social anxiety disorder includes fear, anxiety and avoidance that interfere with relationships, daily routines, work, school or other activities. Social anxiety disorder typically begins in the early to mid-teens, though it can sometimes start in younger children or in adults.
Signs and symptoms of social anxiety disorder can include constant:
Fear of situations in which you may be judged negatively
Worry about embarrassing or humiliating yourself
Intense fear of interacting or talking with strangers
Fear that others will notice that you look anxious
Fear of physical symptoms that may cause you embarrassment, such as blushing, sweating, trembling or having a shaky voice
Avoidance of doing things or speaking to people out of fear of embarrassment
Avoidance of situations where you might be the center of attention
Anxiety in anticipation of a feared activity or event
Intense fear or anxiety during social situations
Analysis of your performance and identification of flaws in your interactions after a social situation
Expectation of the worst possible consequences from a negative experience during a social situation
For children, anxiety about interacting with adults or peers may be shown by crying, having temper tantrums, clinging to parents or refusing to speak in social situations.
Performance type of social anxiety disorder is when you experience intense fear and anxiety during speaking or performing in public but not in other types of more general social situations.
Physical signs and symptoms can sometimes accompany social anxiety disorder and may include:
Blushing
Fast heartbeat
Trembling
Sweating
Upset stomach or nausea
Trouble catching your breath
Dizziness or lightheadedness
Feeling that your mind has gone blank
Muscle tension
Common, everyday experiences may be hard to endure when you have social anxiety disorder, including:
Interacting with unfamiliar people or strangers
Attending parties or social gatherings
Going to work or school
Starting conversations
Making eye contact
Dating
Entering a room in which people are already seated
Returning items to a store
Eating in front of others
Using a public restroom
Social anxiety disorder symptoms can change over time. They may flare up if you're facing a lot of changes, stress or demands in your life. Although avoiding situations that produce anxiety may make you feel better in the short term, your anxiety is likely to continue over the long term if you don't get treatment.
See your doctor or a mental health professional if you fear and avoid normal social situations because they cause embarrassment, worry or panic.
Causes for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia) :
Like many other mental health conditions, social anxiety disorder likely arises from a complex interaction of biological and environmental factors. Possible causes include:
Inherited traits. Anxiety disorders tend to run in families. However, it isn't entirely clear how much of this may be due to genetics and how much is due to learned behavior.
Brain structure. A structure in the brain called the amygdala (uh-MIG-duh-luh) may play a role in controlling the fear response. People who have an overactive amygdala may have a heightened fear response, causing increased anxiety in social situations.
Environment. Social anxiety disorder may be a learned behavior — some people may develop significant anxiety after an unpleasant or embarrassing social situation. Also, there may be an association between social anxiety disorder and parents who either model anxious behavior in social situations or are more controlling or overprotective of their children.
Risk Factors for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia):
Several factors can increase the risk of developing social anxiety disorder, including:
Family history. You're more likely to develop social anxiety disorder if your biological parents or siblings have the condition.
Negative experiences. Children who experience teasing, bullying, rejection, ridicule or humiliation may be more prone to social anxiety disorder. In addition, other negative events in life, such as family conflict, trauma or abuse, may be associated with this disorder.
Temperament. Children who are shy, timid, withdrawn or restrained when facing new situations or people may be at greater risk.
New social or work demands. Social anxiety disorder symptoms typically start in the teenage years, but meeting new people, giving a speech in public or making an important work presentation may trigger symptoms for the first time.
Having an appearance or condition that draws attention. For example, facial disfigurement, stuttering or tremors due to Parkinson's disease can increase feelings of self-consciousness and may trigger social anxiety disorder in some people.
Complications for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia):
Left untreated, social anxiety disorder can control your life. Anxieties can interfere with work, school, relationships or enjoyment of life. This disorder can cause:
Low self-esteem
Trouble being assertive
Negative self-talk
Hypersensitivity to criticism
Poor social skills
Isolation and difficult social relationships
Low academic and employment achievement
Substance abuse, such as drinking too much alcohol
Suicide or suicide attempts
Other anxiety disorders and certain other mental health disorders, particularly major depressive disorder and substance abuse problems, often occur with social anxiety disorder.
Preventions for Social anxiety disorder (social phobia)
There's no way to predict what will cause someone to develop an anxiety disorder, but you can take steps to reduce the impact of symptoms if you're anxious:
Get help early. Anxiety, like many other mental health conditions, can be harder to treat if you wait.
Keep a journal. Keeping track of your personal life can help you and your mental health professional identify what's causing you stress and what seems to help you feel better.
Set priorities in your life. You can reduce anxiety by carefully managing your time and energy. Make sure that you spend time doing things you enjoy.
Avoid unhealthy substance use. Alcohol and drug use and even caffeine or nicotine use can cause or worsen anxiety. If you're addicted to any of these substances, quitting can make you anxious. If you can't quit on your own, see your health care provider or find a treatment program or support group to help you.
Condition name:Soft palate cancer
Overview of Soft palate cancer:
Soft palate cancer is cancer that starts as a growth of cells on the soft palate. The soft palate is located on the upper part of the back of the mouth, behind the teeth.
Soft palate cancer most often begins in the thin, flat cells that line the inside of the mouth and throat, called squamous cells. When cancer starts in these cells it's called squamous cell carcinoma.
Soft palate cancer can cause changes in the look and feel of the tissue on the soft palate. These changes may include a lump or a sore that doesn't heal.
Soft palate cancer is considered a type of throat cancer. It is treated similarly to the way other types of throat cancers are treated. This may include a combination of surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Soft palate cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Soft palate cancer :
Signs and symptoms of soft palate cancer can include the following:
Bleeding in the mouth.
Difficulty swallowing.
Difficulty speaking.
Bad breath.
Mouth pain.
Sores in the mouth that won't heal.
Loose teeth.
Pain when swallowing.
Weight loss.
Ear pain.
Swelling in the neck that may hurt.
White patches in the mouth that won't go away.
Causes for Soft palate cancer :
Soft palate cancer happens when cells on the soft palate develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
It's not always clear what causes the DNA changes that lead to soft palate cancer. For some soft palate cancers, human papillomavirus is thought to have a part. HPV is a common virus that's transmitted through sexual contact. For most people, HPV doesn't cause any problems. For others, it causes changes in the cells that may one day lead to cancer.
Risk Factors for Soft palate cancer:
Things that may increase the risk of soft palate cancer include:
There are no Complications available for Soft palate cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Soft palate cancer
Ways to reduce your risk of soft palate cancer include:
Condition name:Soft tissue sarcoma
Overview of Soft tissue sarcoma:
Soft tissue sarcoma is a rare type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells in the body's soft tissues. The soft tissues connect, support and surround other body structures. Soft tissues include muscle, fat, blood vessels, nerves, tendons and linings of the joints.
Soft tissue sarcoma can happen anywhere in the body. It happens most often in the arms, legs and belly.
More than 50 types of soft tissue sarcoma exist. Some types are more likely to affect children. Others affect mostly adults. These cancers can be hard to diagnose because they may be mistaken for many other types of growths.
Soft tissue sarcoma treatment usually involves surgery. Other treatments might include radiation therapy and chemotherapy. Treatment depends on the size, type and location of the cancer and how quickly it grows.
There are no home remedies available for Soft tissue sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Soft tissue sarcoma :
A soft tissue sarcoma may not cause any symptoms at first. As the cancer grows, it may cause:
A noticeable lump or swelling.
Pain, if the growth presses on nerves or muscles.
Causes for Soft tissue sarcoma :
It's not clear what causes most soft tissue sarcomas.
Soft tissue sarcoma starts when a connective tissue cell gets changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes turn the connective tissue cells into cancer cells. The changes tell the cancer cells to grow and make more cells. Healthy cells die as part of their natural cycle, but cancer cells keep growing because they do not have instructions to stop.
The cancer cells form a growth, called a tumor. In some types of soft tissue sarcoma, the cancer cells stay in one location. They continue making more cells and cause the tumor to get bigger. In other types of soft tissue sarcoma, the cancer cells might break away and spread to other parts of the body.
The type of cell with DNA changes is what determines the type of soft tissue sarcoma. For example, angiosarcoma begins in cells in the lining of blood vessels, while liposarcoma starts in fat cells.
Some types of soft tissue sarcoma include:
Angiosarcoma.
Dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans.
Epithelioid sarcoma.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).
Kaposi's sarcoma.
Leiomyosarcoma.
Liposarcoma.
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor.
Myxofibrosarcoma.
Rhabdomyosarcoma.
Solitary fibrous tumor.
Synovial sarcoma.
Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma.
Risk Factors for Soft tissue sarcoma:
Factors that may raise the risk of sarcoma include:
Inherited syndromes. A risk of soft tissue sarcoma can run in families. Genetic syndromes that increase the risk include hereditary retinoblastoma, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, familial adenomatous polyposis, neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis and Werner syndrome.
Chemical exposure. Being exposed to certain chemicals may increase the risk of soft tissue sarcomas. These chemicals include herbicides, arsenic and dioxin.
Radiation exposure. Radiation therapy for other cancers can increase the risk of soft tissue sarcomas.
There are no Complications available for Soft tissue sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Soft tissue sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Solitary fibrous tumor
Overview of Solitary fibrous tumor:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Solitary fibrous tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Solitary fibrous tumor :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Solitary fibrous tumor in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Solitary fibrous tumor in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Solitary fibrous tumor in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Solitary fibrous tumor in the knowledge baseCondition name:Somatic symptom disorder
Overview of Somatic symptom disorder:
Somatic symptom disorder is characterized by an extreme focus on physical symptoms — such as pain or fatigue — that causes major emotional distress and problems functioning. You may or may not have another diagnosed medical condition associated with these symptoms, but your reaction to the symptoms is not normal.
You often think the worst about your symptoms and frequently seek medical care, continuing to search for an explanation even when other serious conditions have been excluded. Health concerns may become such a central focus of your life that it's hard to function, sometimes leading to disability.
If you have somatic symptom disorder, you may experience significant emotional and physical distress. Treatment can help ease symptoms, help you cope and improve your quality of life.
Home Remedies for Somatic symptom disorder:
While somatic symptom disorder benefits from professional treatment, you can take some lifestyle and self-care steps, including these:
Work with your care providers. Work with your medical care provider and mental health professional to determine a regular schedule for visits to discuss your concerns and build a trusting relationship. Also discuss setting reasonable limits on tests, evaluations and specialist referrals. Avoid seeking advice from multiple doctors or emergency room visits that can make your care more difficult to coordinate and may subject you to duplicate testing.
Practice stress management and relaxation techniques. Learning stress management and relaxation techniques, such as progressive muscle relaxation, may help improve symptoms.
Get physically active. A graduated activity program may have a calming effect on your mood, improve your physical symptoms and help improve your physical function.
Participate in activities. Stay involved in your work and in social and family activities. Don't wait until your symptoms are resolved to participate.
Avoid alcohol and recreational drugs. Substance use can make your care more difficult. Talk to your health care provider if you need help quitting.
Symptoms for Somatic symptom disorder :
Symptoms of somatic symptom disorder may be:
Specific sensations, such as pain or shortness of breath, or more general symptoms, such as fatigue or weakness
Unrelated to any medical cause that can be identified, or related to a medical condition such as cancer or heart disease, but more significant than what's usually expected
A single symptom, multiple symptoms or varying symptoms
Mild, moderate or severe
Pain is the most common symptom, but whatever your symptoms, you have excessive thoughts, feelings or behaviors related to those symptoms, which cause significant problems, make it difficult to function and sometimes can be disabling.
These thoughts, feelings and behaviors can include:
Constant worry about potential illness
Viewing normal physical sensations as a sign of severe physical illness
Fearing that symptoms are serious, even when there is no evidence
Thinking that physical sensations are threatening or harmful
Feeling that medical evaluation and treatment have not been adequate
Fearing that physical activity may cause damage to your body
Repeatedly checking your body for abnormalities
Frequent health care visits that don't relieve your concerns or that make them worse
Being unresponsive to medical treatment or unusually sensitive to medication side effects
Having a more severe impairment than is usually expected from a medical condition
For somatic symptom disorder, more important than the specific physical symptoms you experience is the way you interpret and react to the symptoms and how they impact your daily life.
Causes for Somatic symptom disorder :
The exact cause of somatic symptom disorder isn't clear, but any of these factors may play a role:
Genetic and biological factors, such as an increased sensitivity to pain
Family influence, which may be genetic or environmental, or both
Personality trait of negativity, which can impact how you identify and perceive illness and bodily symptoms
Decreased awareness of or problems processing emotions, causing physical symptoms to become the focus rather than the emotional issues
Learned behavior — for example, the attention or other benefits gained from having an illness; or "pain behaviors" in response to symptoms, such as excessive avoidance of activity, which can increase your level of disability
Risk Factors for Somatic symptom disorder:
Risk factors for somatic symptom disorder include:
Having anxiety or depression
Having a medical condition or recovering from one
Being at risk of developing a medical condition, such as having a strong family history of a disease
Experiencing stressful life events, trauma or violence
Having experienced past trauma, such as childhood sexual abuse
Having a lower level of education and socio-economic status
Complications for Somatic symptom disorder:
Somatic symptom disorder can be associated with:
Poor health
Problems functioning in daily life, including physical disability
Problems with relationships
Problems at work or unemployment
Other mental health disorders, such as anxiety, depression and personality disorders
Increased suicide risk related to depression
Financial problems due to excessive health care visits
Preventions for Somatic symptom disorder
Little is known about how to prevent somatic symptom disorder. However, these recommendations may help.
If you have problems with anxiety or depression, seek professional help as soon as possible.
Learn to recognize when you're stressed and how this affects your body — and regularly practice stress management and relaxation techniques.
If you think you have somatic symptom disorder, get treatment early to help stop symptoms from getting worse and impairing your quality of life.
Stick with your treatment plan to help prevent relapses or worsening of symptoms.
Condition name:Specific phobias
Overview of Specific phobias:
Specific phobias are an extreme fear of objects or situations that pose little or no danger but make you highly anxious. So you try to stay away from these things. Unlike the brief anxiety you may feel when giving a speech or taking a test, specific phobias are long-lasting. Without treatment, specific phobias tend to last a lifetime.
Phobias can cause strong physical, mental and emotional responses. They also can affect how you act at work or school, or in social situations.
Specific phobias are common anxiety disorders. Overall, they happen more often in females. Not all phobias need to be treated. But if a specific phobia affects your daily life, several types of therapies are available to help you work through and conquer your fears — often forever.
Home Remedies for Specific phobias:
Ask your doctor or other health care professional to suggest lifestyle and other strategies to help you manage the anxiety caused by specific phobias. For example:
Mindfulness strategies may help you learn how to manage anxiety and reduce avoidance behaviors.
Relaxation techniques, such as deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation or yoga, may help you cope with physical symptoms of anxiety and stress.
Physical activity and exercise may help manage anxiety related to specific phobias.
More Information
Fear of public speaking: How can I overcome it?
Symptoms for Specific phobias :
A specific phobia involves a strong, lasting fear of a certain object or situation that's much greater than the actual risk. There are many types of phobias. It's common to have a specific phobia about more than one object or situation. Specific phobias also can happen along with other types of anxiety disorders.
Common types of specific phobias are fears of:
Situations, such as airplanes, driving, enclosed spaces or going to school.
Nature, such as thunderstorms, heights or the dark.
Animals or insects, such as dogs, snakes or spiders.
Blood, shots or injuries, such as needles, accidents or medical procedures.
Others, such as choking, throwing up, loud noises or clowns.
Each specific phobia has a name. Phobia comes from the Greek word "phobos," which means fear. Examples of more common names include acrophobia for the fear of heights and claustrophobia for the fear of confined spaces.
No matter what specific phobia you have, you may:
Feel intense fear, anxiety and panic right away when exposed to or even thinking about what causes your fear.
Know that your fears are not reasonable or not as big as you think they are, but you cannot control them.
Have anxiety that gets worse as the situation or object gets closer to you physically or in time.
Do everything possible to stay away from an object or situation or face it with extreme anxiety or fear.
Have trouble with daily activities because of your fear.
Have physical reactions and feelings, including sweating, rapid heartbeat, tight chest or trouble breathing.
Feel like throwing up, or you get dizzy or faint, especially around blood or injuries.
Children may have tantrums, or they may cling, cry or refuse to leave a parent's side or approach their fear.
When to see a doctor
An extreme fear can make life hard — for example, taking long flights of stairs instead of an elevator. But it is not a specific phobia unless it seriously disrupts your life. If anxiety negatively affects the way you act at work or school, or in social situations, talk with your doctor or another health care professional, or a mental health professional.
Childhood fears, such as fear of the dark, monsters or of being left alone, are common. Most children outgrow them. But if your child has an ongoing, strong fear that interferes with how they act at school or work daily, talk to your child's doctor.
The right therapy can help most people. And the sooner you ask for help, the more likely that therapy will be effective.
Causes for Specific phobias :
Much is still not known about what causes specific phobias. Causes may include:
Bad experiences. Many phobias start because of a bad experience or panic attack related to a specific object or situation. Sometimes even seeing or hearing about a bad experience can be enough to trigger a phobia.
Genetics or learned behavior. There may be a link between your specific phobia and the phobia or anxiety of your parents. This could be due to a blend of genetics and learned behaviors.
Brain function and structure. Those with specific phobias trigger certain parts of the brain, while a person without these phobias does not have the same response in the brain. Also, a person with a specific phobia can have a different brain structure than a person without that specific phobia.
Risk Factors for Specific phobias:
These factors may increase your risk of specific phobias:
Age. Specific phobias can first appear when you're a child, typically by age 10. But they can occur later in life too.
Your relatives. If a family member has a specific phobia or anxiety, you're more likely to develop it too. This could be something passed down to you from a blood relative. Or children may learn specific phobias by watching how a family member reacts to an object or a situation.
Your temperament. Your risk may increase if you're more sensitive to anxiety or you're more reserved or negative than what's typical.
A bad experience. A specific phobia can start when something distressing happens to you, such as being trapped in an elevator or attacked by an animal.
Learning about bad experiences. Hearing about bad experiences, such as a plane crash, can cause a specific phobia to start.
Changing your behavior. Avoidance is the most common way people cope with phobias. By doing so, their anxiety typically gets worse.
Complications for Specific phobias:
Although specific phobias may seem silly to others, they can be distressing and damaging to the people who have them. These phobias can cause problems that affect many areas of life.
They can result in:
Social isolation. Staying away from places and things that are feared can cause problems at work or school, or in connections with others. Children with these disorders are at risk of problems at school and loneliness. They also may have trouble in social situations if their behaviors are very different from their peers.
Mood disorders. Many people with specific phobias have depression and other anxiety disorders.
Substance misuse. The stress of living with a severe specific phobia may lead to misuse of drugs or alcohol.
Suicide. Some people with specific phobias may be at risk of suicide.
Strain on loved ones. To try to keep from feeling anxious, people often rely too much on being reassured by others. Sometimes this leads to others becoming too protective over the person with anxiety. For example, a parent may become too protective of a child, resulting in more stress for the parent.
There are no preventive measures available for Specific phobias in the knowledge baseCondition name:Spina bifida
Overview of Spina bifida:
Spina bifida is a condition that occurs when the spine and spinal cord don't form properly. It's a type of neural tube defect. The neural tube is the structure in a developing embryo that later becomes the baby's brain and spinal cord and the tissues that enclose them.
Typically, the neural tube forms early in pregnancy and closes by the 28th day after conception. In babies with spina bifida, a portion of the neural tube doesn't close all the way. This affects the spinal cord and bones of the spine.
Spina bifida can range from being mild to causing serious disabilities. Symptoms depend on where on the spine the opening is located and how big it is. Symptoms also depend on whether the spinal cord and nerves are involved. When necessary, early treatment for spina bifida involves surgery. However, surgery doesn't always completely restore lost function.
There are no home remedies available for Spina bifida in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Spina bifida :
Symptoms of spina bifida vary by type and from one person to another.
Spina bifida occulta. Typically, there aren't any symptoms of spina bifida occulta because the spinal nerves aren't involved. But you can sometimes see symptoms on the newborn's skin above the small gap in the spine. You might see a tuft of hair, a small dimple or a birthmark. Sometimes, these skin marks can be symptoms of a spinal cord issue that can be found with MRI or a spinal ultrasound in a newborn.
Meningocele. This type may affect bladder and bowel function.
Myelomeningocele. In this most serious type of spina bifida, the spinal canal remains open along several vertebrae in the lower or middle back. The membranes and part of the spinal cord or nerves protrude at birth, forming a sac. Tissues and nerves usually are exposed, though sometimes skin covers the sac. Babies with this type of spina bifida may have trouble with bladder and bowel function. They also may experience weakness or lack of movement in the legs. Babies may have a buildup of fluid in the brain called hydrocephalus that can put pressure on brain tissue.
Causes for Spina bifida :
The cause of spina bifida is not known. It's thought that a combination of genetic, nutritional and environmental risk factors causes the condition. This includes having a family history of neural tube defects and getting too little folate, also known as vitamin B-9, during pregnancy.
Risk Factors for Spina bifida:
Spina bifida is more common among Hispanic people and white people. Also, female babies are affected more often than male babies. Although healthcare professionals and researchers don't know why spina bifida occurs, they have identified some risk factors:
Too little folate in the pregnant person's body. Folate, the natural form of vitamin B-9, is important to the development of a healthy baby. Folic acid is the synthetic form that's found in supplements and fortified foods. If folate levels are too low, it's known as a deficiency. Folate deficiency increases the risk of spina bifida and other conditions that affect the neural tube.
Family history of neural tube defects. Having one child with a condition that affects the neural tube slightly increases the chance of having another baby with the same condition. The risk increases even more if two previous children have been affected by the condition.
Also, being born with a neural tube defect increases the chance of giving birth to a child with spina bifida. However, most babies with spina bifida are born to parents with no known family history of the condition.
Some medicines. Taking anti-seizure medicines such as valproic acid during pregnancy increases the risk of having a baby with spina bifida. This might happen because the medicines interfere with the body's ability to use folate and folic acid.
Diabetes. Having diabetes that is not well controlled before becoming pregnant increases the risk of having a baby with spina bifida.
Obesity. Obesity at the time of pregnancy also is associated with an increased risk of spina bifida.
Increased body temperature. Some evidence suggests that increased body temperature in the early weeks of pregnancy may increase the risk of spina bifida. A high core body temperature can be caused by a fever or by using a sauna or hot tub.
If you have known risk factors for spina bifida, talk with your healthcare professional. You may need a larger dose or prescription dose of folic acid, even before a pregnancy begins.
Also tell your healthcare professional about all of the medicines you take. If you plan ahead, some medicines can be adjusted to lower the potential risk of spina bifida.
Complications for Spina bifida:
Spina bifida may cause minimal symptoms or it can lead to more-serious physical conditions. Symptoms are affected by:
The size and location of the opening in the spine.
Whether skin covers the affected area.
Which spinal nerves come out of the affected area of the spinal cord.
A number of complications may affect children with spina bifida. But not all children get all of these complications. Many complications can be treated.
Walking and mobility problems. The nerves that control the leg muscles don't work properly below the area of the spinal cord that is affected. This can cause muscle weakness of the legs. Sometimes it can cause loss of movement, known as paralysis. Whether a child can walk depends on the location of the spine that's affected and the size of the opening in the neural tube. Ability to walk also depends on the care received before and after birth.
Orthopedic complications. Children with myelomeningocele can have several complications in the legs and spine because of weak muscles. The complications depend on the location of the spine that's affected. Possible orthopedic issues may include:
Curved spine, known as scoliosis.
Changes that aren't typical, such as an inward-facing foot, known as clubfoot.
Dislocation of the hip.
Bone and joint conditions.
Shortened, tight muscles, known as muscle contractures.
Bowel and bladder symptoms. Nerves that supply the bladder and bowel usually don't work properly in children with myelomeningocele. As a result, they can't control their bowel or bladder. This is because the nerves that supply the bowel and bladder come from the lowest level of the spinal cord.
Buildup of fluid in the brain, known as hydrocephalus. Babies born with myelomeningocele commonly have a buildup of fluid in the brain. This condition is known as hydrocephalus.
Shunt malfunction. Shunts placed in the brain to treat hydrocephalus can stop working or become infected. Warning signs may vary. Some of the warning symptoms of a shunt that isn't working include:
Headaches.
Vomiting.
Sleepiness.
Irritability.
Swelling or redness along the shunt.
Confusion.
Changes in the eyes, such as a fixed downward gaze.
Trouble feeding.
Seizures.
Chiari malformation type 2. Chiari malformation (kee-AH-ree mal-for-MAY-shun) type 2 is common in children who have myelomeningocele. The brainstem is the lowest part of the brain above the spinal cord. In Chiari malformation type 2, the brainstem becomes longer and is lower than usual in the spinal canal or area of the neck. This can cause arm weakness and trouble with breathing and swallowing. Rarely, this condition can cause compression on this area of the brain. Surgery is needed to relieve the pressure.
Infection in the tissues surrounding the brain, known as meningitis. Some babies with myelomeningocele may develop an infection in the tissues surrounding the brain. This potentially dangerous infection may cause brain injury.
Tethered spinal cord. A tethered spinal cord is when the spinal nerves attach to tissue and stretch. This can happen with scar tissue that resulted from surgery. When a spinal cord is tethered, it's less able to grow as the child grows. It can lead to loss of muscle function in the legs, bowel or bladder. Surgery can limit the degree of disability.
Sleep-disordered breathing. Sleep apnea or other sleep conditions can affect both children and adults with spina bifida, particularly those with myelomeningocele. They may need to be tested to see if they briefly stop breathing several times during sleep, known as sleep apnea. Getting treatment can improve health and quality of life.
Skin problems. Children with spina bifida have less feeling in some parts of their bodies and may get wounds on their feet, legs, buttocks or backs. Blisters or sores can turn into deep wounds or foot infections that are hard to treat. Children with myelomeningocele have a higher risk of developing wounds in casts.
Latex allergy. Children with spina bifida have a higher risk of an allergic reaction to natural rubber or latex products. A latex allergy may cause rash, sneezing, itching, watery eyes and a runny nose. It also can cause a dangerous condition in which the face and airways swell and make it hard to breathe, known as anaphylaxis. It's best to use latex-free gloves and equipment during childbirth and when caring for a child with spina bifida.
Other complications. Other medical issues may arise as children with spina bifida get older. These complications may include urinary tract infections, gastrointestinal (GI) conditions and depression. Children with myelomeningocele may have learning disabilities. They may have trouble paying attention and learning reading and math.
Preventions for Spina bifida
You can greatly reduce your risk of having a baby with spina bifida or other neural tube defects by taking folic acid supplements. Begin taking the supplements at least one month before becoming pregnant and continue taking them through the first trimester of pregnancy.
Condition name:Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM)
Overview of Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM):
A spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) is a tangle of blood vessels that forms on, in or near the spinal cord. This creates irregular connections between arteries and veins. Without treatment, this rare condition can cause lasting damage to the spinal cord.
Oxygen-rich blood enters the spinal cord through arteries. The arteries usually branch into smaller blood vessels called capillaries. The spinal cord gets oxygen from the blood in the capillaries. Then the blood passes into veins and moves away from the spinal cord to the heart and lungs.
But in a spinal AVM, the blood passes directly from the arteries to the veins. This change in blood flow means that the surrounding cells don't get the oxygen they need. This can cause cells in the spinal tissue to weaken or die.
The tangled arteries and veins in a spinal AVM also can burst and cause bleeding in the spinal cord. Sometimes, the AVM gets bigger as blood flow increases. The AVM can press on the spinal cord and cause weakness or other symptoms.
You might not know you have a spinal AVM unless you have symptoms. The condition can be treated with surgery to stop or possibly reverse some of the spinal damage.
There are no home remedies available for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) :
Symptoms of a spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) can differ from person to person. Symptoms depend on where the AVM is found and how serious it is. Some people may not notice symptoms for many years, if at all. Others may experience symptoms that are life-threatening.
Symptoms often begin when people are in their 20s but can occur at earlier or later ages. Some people are diagnosed under the age of 16.
Symptoms may start suddenly or slowly and may include:
Trouble walking or climbing stairs.
Numbness, tingling or sudden pain in the legs.
Weakness on one or both sides of the body.
As the condition gets worse, you may have more symptoms including:
Sudden, serious back pain.
Lack of feeling in the legs.
Trouble urinating or having bowel movements.
Headache.
Stiff neck.
Causes for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) :
The cause of spinal arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) isn't known. Most spinal AVMs are present at birth, known as congenital. But others may happen later in life.
Risk Factors for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM):
There are no known risk factors for spinal arteriovenous malformations (AVMs). The condition occurs equally in men and women.
Complications for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM):
Without treatment, a spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) can cause disability that gets worse over time. This is from damage to the spinal cord and surrounding tissues. This can cause:
Trouble moving.
Pain, tingling and numbness.
Damage to the spine.
Bulging blood vessel, known as an aneurysm.
High blood pressure in the veins, known as venous hypertension. This can cause fluid to build up, called edema. It also can cause tissues to die due to lack of oxygen, known as spinal cord infarction.
Hemorrhage, which can speed up spinal cord damage.
There are no preventive measures available for Spinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Spinal cord injury
Overview of Spinal cord injury:
A spinal cord injury involves damage to any part of the spinal cord. It also can include damage to nerves at the end of the spinal cord, known as the cauda equina. The spinal cord sends and receives signals between the brain and the rest of the body. A spinal cord injury often causes permanent changes in strength, feeling and other body functions below the site of the injury.
People who have had a spinal cord injury also may experience mental, emotional and social side effects.
Many scientists are optimistic that advances in research will someday make repair of spinal cord injuries possible. Research studies are ongoing around the world. In the meantime, treatments and rehabilitation allow many people with spinal cord injuries to lead productive, independent lives.
There are no home remedies available for Spinal cord injury in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Spinal cord injury :
The ability to control your arms or legs after a spinal cord injury depends on two factors. One factor is where the injury occurred on the spinal cord. The other factor is how bad the injury is.
The lowest part of the spinal cord not damaged after an injury is known as the neurological level of the injury. "The completeness" of the injury refers to how much feeling, known as sensation, is lost. Completeness is classified as:
Complete. If all feeling and all ability to control movement are lost below the spinal cord injury, the injury is called complete.
Incomplete. If some feeling and control of movement remain below the affected area, the injury is called incomplete. There are varying degrees of incomplete injury.
Loss of feeling and control of movement is known as paralysis. Paralysis from a spinal cord injury can be referred to as:
Tetraplegia, also known as quadriplegia. This means that your arms, hands, trunk, legs and pelvic organs are all affected by your spinal cord injury.
Paraplegia. This paralysis affects all or part of the trunk, legs and pelvic organs but not the arms.
Your healthcare team performs a series of tests to determine the neurological level and completeness of your injury.
Spinal cord injuries can cause the following symptoms:
Loss of movement.
Loss of or a change in sensation. This includes a change in the ability to feel heat, cold and touch.
Loss of bowel or bladder control.
Exaggerated reflex activities or spasms.
Changes in sexual function, sexual sensitivity and fertility.
Pain or an intense stinging sensation caused by damage to the nerve fibers in the spinal cord.
Trouble breathing, coughing or clearing secretions from the lungs.
Causes for Spinal cord injury :
Spinal cord injuries can result from damage to the spinal cord itself or to the bones that surround the spinal cord, known as the vertebrae. Injuries also may happen as a result of damage to the ligaments or disks of the spinal column.
A sudden, traumatic blow to the spine can fracture, dislocate, crush or compress one or more of the vertebrae. A gunshot or knife wound that penetrates and cuts the spinal cord also can cause a spinal cord injury.
Additional damage usually occurs over days or weeks. This is because of bleeding, swelling and fluid accumulation in and around the spinal cord after an injury.
Other causes of a spinal cord injury don't include trauma. Arthritis, cancer, inflammation, infections or disk degeneration of the spine can be possible causes.
Risk Factors for Spinal cord injury:
A spinal cord injury usually results from an accident and can happen to anyone. But certain factors can increase the risk of having a spinal cord injury, including:
Being male. Spinal cord injuries largely affect men. In fact, women account for only about 20% of traumatic spinal cord injuries in the United States.
Being between the ages of 16 and 30. More than half of spinal cord injuries occur in people in this age range.
Being 65 and older. Another spike in spinal cord injuries occurs at age 65. Falls cause most injuries in older adults.
Alcohol use. Alcohol use is involved in about 25% of traumatic spinal cord injuries.
Engaging in risky behavior. Motor vehicle crashes are the leading cause of spinal cord injuries for people under 65. Other risky behaviors include diving into shallow water and playing sports without wearing safety gear or taking proper precautions.
Having certain diseases. A minor injury can cause spinal cord damage if you have a condition that affects your joints or bones, such as osteoporosis.
Complications for Spinal cord injury:
A spinal cord injury can lead to many complications. Your rehabilitation team helps you develop tools to address these complications. The team also recommends equipment and resources to promote your quality of life and independence. Areas often affected include:
Bladder control. The bladder continues to store urine from the kidneys after a spinal cord injury. But the injury may interfere with the brain receiving the messages it needs to control the bladder.
Changes in bladder control increase the risk of urinary tract infections. The changes also may cause kidney infections and kidney or bladder stones. During rehabilitation, you learn ways to help empty your bladder.
Bowel control. The stomach and intestines work much like they did before the injury, but control of bowel movements is often altered. A high-fiber diet might help regulate the bowels. You also can learn ways to help control your bowel.
Pressure injuries. Below the neurological level of your injury, you might have lost some or all skin sensations. Therefore, your skin can't send a message to your brain when it's injured by certain things such as prolonged pressure.
This can increase the risk of getting pressure sores. Changing positions often — with help, if needed — can help prevent the sores. Proper skin care also can help prevent pressure sores.
Circulatory control. People with a spinal cord injury may have low blood pressure when they rise, known as orthostatic hypotension. They also may have swelling in the arms and legs. This can increase the risk of developing blood clots, such as deep vein thrombosis or a pulmonary embolus.
Another issue with circulatory control is a potentially life-threatening rise in blood pressure, known as autonomic dysreflexia. Your rehabilitation team can teach you how to address these issues if they affect you.
Respiratory system. If the injury affects the stomach and chest muscles, it may be hard to breathe and cough.
The neurological level of injury determines what kind of breathing problems you may have. If the injury affects your neck and chest, you might have an increased risk of pneumonia or other lung conditions. Medicines and therapy can be helpful for treatment and prevention.
Bone density. A spinal cord injury increases the risk of osteoporosis and fractures below the level of injury.
Muscle tone. Some people with spinal cord injuries have a tightening or motion in the muscles, known as spasticity. Other people may have soft and limp muscles lacking muscle tone, known as flaccidity.
Fitness and wellness. Weight loss and muscle thinning are common soon after a spinal cord injury. Because limited mobility can lead to a more sedentary lifestyle, there is a risk of weight gain, cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
A dietitian can help you eat a nutritious diet to sustain a healthy weight. Physical and occupational therapists can help you develop a fitness and exercise program.
Sexual health. A spinal cord injury may lead to changes in erection and ejaculation, or in changes in lubrication. Healthcare professionals specializing in urology or fertility can offer options for sexual functioning and fertility.
Pain. Some people have pain, such as muscle or joint pain, from overuse of particular muscle groups. Nerve pain can occur after a spinal cord injury, especially in someone with an incomplete injury.
Depression. Pain and the changes a spinal cord injury brings can cause depression in some people.
Preventions for Spinal cord injury
Following this advice might reduce your risk of a spinal cord injury:
Drive safely. Car crashes are one of the most common causes of spinal cord injuries. Wear a seat belt every time you are in a moving vehicle.
Make sure that your children wear a seat belt or use an age- and weight-appropriate child safety seat. To protect them from air bag injuries, children under age 12 should always ride in the back seat.
Check water depth before diving. Don't dive into a pool unless it's at least 9 feet (about 2.74 meters) deep and clearly marked safe for diving. Competition diving requires a deeper depth. And don't dive into an aboveground pool or into water if you don't know how deep it is.
Prevent falls. Use a step stool with a grab bar to reach high-up objects. Add handrails along stairways. Put nonslip mats on tile floors and in the tub or shower. For young children, use safety gates to block stairs and consider installing window guards.
Take precautions when playing sports. Always wear recommended safety gear. Avoid leading with your head in sports. For example, don't slide headfirst in baseball. In American football, don't tackle using the top of your helmet. Use a spotter for new moves in gymnastics.
Don't drink and drive. Don't drive after drinking alcohol or while under the influence of drugs. Don't ride with a driver who has been drinking.
Condition name:Spinal cord tumor
Overview of Spinal cord tumor:
A spinal tumor is a growth that develops within your spinal canal or within the bones of your spine. A spinal cord tumor, also called an intradural tumor, is a spinal tumor that that begins within the spinal cord or the covering of the spinal cord (dura). A tumor that affects the bones of the spine (vertebrae) is called a vertebral tumor.
Spinal cord tumors may be classified as one of three different types depending on where they occur relative to the protective membranes of the spinal cord.
These are the main types of intradural tumors:
Intramedullary tumors begin in the cells within the spinal cord itself, such as gliomas, astrocytomas or ependymomas.
Extramedullary tumors grow in either the membrane surrounding the spinal cord or the nerve roots that reach out from the spinal cord. Although they don't begin within the spinal cord itself, these types of tumors may affect spinal cord function by causing spinal cord compression and other problems. Examples of extramedullary tumors that can affect the spinal cord include meningiomas, neurofibromas, schwannomas and nerve sheath tumors.
Tumors from other parts of the body can spread (metastasize) to the vertebrae, the supporting network around the spinal cord or, in rare cases, the spinal cord itself.
Spinal tumors or growths of any kind can lead to pain, neurological problems and sometimes paralysis. A spinal tumor can be life-threatening and cause permanent disability.
Treatment for a spinal tumor may include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy or other medications.
Find out why Mayo Clinic is the best place for your care.
There are no home remedies available for Spinal cord tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Spinal cord tumor :
Spinal cord tumors can cause different signs and symptoms, especially as tumors grow. The tumors may affect your spinal cord or the nerve roots, blood vessels or bones of your spine. Signs and symptoms may include:
Pain at the site of the tumor due to tumor growth
Back pain, often radiating to other parts of your body
Feeling less sensitive to pain, heat and cold
Loss of bowel or bladder function
Difficulty walking, sometimes leading to falls
Back pain that's worse at night
Loss of sensation or muscle weakness, especially in your arms or legs
Muscle weakness , which may be mild or severe, in different parts of your body
Back pain is a common early symptom of spinal tumors. Pain may also spread beyond your back to your hips, legs, feet or arms and may worsen over time — even with treatment.
Spinal tumors progress at different rates depending on the type of tumor.
Causes for Spinal cord tumor :
It's not clear why most spinal tumors develop. Experts suspect that defective genes play a role. But it's usually not known whether such genetic defects are inherited or simply develop over time. They might be caused by something in the environment, such as exposure to certain chemicals. In some cases, however, spinal cord tumors are linked to known inherited syndromes, such as neurofibromatosis 2 and von Hippel-Lindau disease.
Risk Factors for Spinal cord tumor:
Spinal cord tumors are more common in people who have:
Neurofibromatosis 2. In this hereditary disorder, benign tumors develop on or near the nerves related to hearing. This may lead to progressive hearing loss in one or both ears. Some people with neurofibromatosis 2 also develop spinal canal tumors.
Von Hippel-Lindau disease. This rare, multisystem disorder is associated with blood vessel tumors (hemangioblastomas) in the brain, retina and spinal cord and with other types of tumors in the kidneys or adrenal glands.
Complications for Spinal cord tumor:
Spinal tumors can compress spinal nerves, leading to a loss of movement or sensation below the location of the tumor. This can sometimes cause changes in bowel and bladder function. Nerve damage may be permanent.
However, if caught early and treated aggressively, it may be possible to prevent further loss of function and regain nerve function. Depending on its location, a tumor that presses against the spinal cord itself may be life-threatening.
There are no preventive measures available for Spinal cord tumor in the knowledge baseCondition name:Spinal headaches
Overview of Spinal headaches:
Spinal headaches are a fairly common complication in those who undergo a spinal tap (lumbar puncture) or spinal anesthesia. Both procedures require a puncture of the membrane that surrounds the spinal cord and, in the lower spine, the lumbar and sacral nerve roots.
During a spinal tap, a sample of cerebrospinal fluid is withdrawn from the spinal canal. During spinal anesthesia, medication is injected into the spinal canal to numb the nerves in the lower half of the body. If spinal fluid leaks through the tiny puncture site, you may develop a spinal headache.
Most spinal headaches — also known as post-dural puncture headaches — resolve on their own with no treatment. However, severe spinal headaches lasting 24 hours or more may need treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Spinal headaches in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Spinal headaches :
Spinal headache symptoms include:
Dull, throbbing pain that varies in intensity from mild to very severe
Pain that typically gets worse when you sit up or stand and decreases or goes away when you lie down
Spinal headaches are often accompanied by:
Dizziness
Ringing in the ears (tinnitus)
Hearing loss
Blurred or double vision
Sensitivity to light (photophobia)
Nausea and vomiting
Neck pain or stiffness
Seizures
Causes for Spinal headaches :
Spinal headaches are caused by leakage of spinal fluid through a puncture hole in the membrane (dura mater) that surrounds the spinal cord. This leakage decreases the pressure exerted by the spinal fluid on the brain and spinal cord, which leads to a headache.
Spinal headaches typically appear within 48 to 72 hours after a spinal tap or spinal anesthesia.
Sometimes epidural anesthesia may lead to a spinal headache as well. Although epidural anesthetic is injected just outside the membrane that surrounds the spinal cord, a spinal headache is possible if the membrane is unintentionally punctured.
Risk Factors for Spinal headaches:
Risk factors for spinal headaches include:
Being between the ages of 18 and 30
Being female
Being pregnant
Having a history of frequent headaches
Undergoing procedures involving the use of larger needles or multiple punctures in the membrane that surrounds the spinal cord
Having a small body mass
There are no Complications available for Spinal headaches in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Spinal headaches in the knowledge baseCondition name:Spinal stenosis
Overview of Spinal stenosis:
Spinal stenosis happens when the space inside the backbone is too small. This can put pressure on the spinal cord and nerves that travel through the spine. Spinal stenosis happens most often in the lower back and the neck.
Some people with spinal stenosis have no symptoms. Others may experience pain, tingling, numbness and muscle weakness. Symptoms can get worse over time.
The most common cause of spinal stenosis is wear-and-tear damage in the spine related to arthritis. People who have serious spinal stenosis may need surgery.
Surgery can create more space inside the spine. This can ease the symptoms caused by pressure on the spinal cord or nerves. But surgery can't cure arthritis, so arthritis pain in the spine may continue.
Home Remedies for Spinal stenosis:
Your healthcare professional may suggest:
Pain relievers. Medicines you can buy without a prescription â€” such as aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others), naproxen sodium (Aleve) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) â€” can help reduce pain and swelling.
Weight loss. Losing excess weight can reduce pain by taking some stress off the lower back.
Exercise. Stretching and strengthening exercises may help relieve symptoms. Talk with your healthcare team about what exercises are safe to do at home.
Walking aids. In addition to providing stability, canes and walkers can help relieve pain by allowing you to bend forward while walking.
Symptoms for Spinal stenosis :
Spinal stenosis often causes no symptoms. When symptoms do happen, they start slowly and get worse over time. Symptoms depend on which part of the spine is affected.
Causes for Spinal stenosis :
Spinal bones are stacked in a column from the skull to the tailbone. They protect the spinal cord, which runs through an opening called the spinal canal.
Some people are born with a small spinal canal. But most spinal stenosis occurs when something happens to reduce the amount of open space within the spine. Causes of spinal stenosis include:
Bone spurs. Wear-and-tear damage from arthritis can cause extra bone to grow on the spine. This creates bone spurs that can push into the spinal canal. Paget's disease also can cause extra bone to grow on the spine.
Herniated disks. Disks are the soft cushions that act as shock absorbers between the spinal bones. If part of the disk's soft inner material leaks out, it can press on the spinal cord or nerves.
Thick ligaments. The strong cords that help hold the bones of the spine together can become stiff and thick over time. Thick ligaments can push into the spinal canal.
Tumors. Rarely, tumors can form inside the spinal canal.
Spinal injuries. Car accidents and other trauma can cause spinal bones to break or move out of place. Swelling of nearby tissue right after back surgery also can put pressure on the spinal cord or nerves.
Risk Factors for Spinal stenosis:
Most people with spinal stenosis are over age 50. Younger people may be at higher risk of spinal stenosis if they have scoliosis or other spinal problems.
There are no Complications available for Spinal stenosis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Spinal stenosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD)
Overview of Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD):
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection is an emergency condition that occurs when a tear forms in a wall of a heart artery. Spontaneous coronary artery dissection also is called SCAD.
SCAD can slow or block blood flow to the heart, causing a heart attack, heart rhythm problems or sudden death.
SCAD most commonly affects women in their 40s and 50s, though it can occur at any age and can occur in men. People who have SCAD often don't have risk factors for heart disease, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes.
SCAD can cause sudden death if it isn't treated promptly. Get emergency medical help if you have heart attack symptoms — even if you think you aren't at risk of a heart attack.
Home Remedies for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD):
It's important to take steps to keep the heart healthy. Try these tips:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. Not smoking is the best way to reduce the risk of heart disease and its complications. Also stay away from secondhand smoke. If you need help quitting, ask your care team for strategies that can help.
Eat healthy foods. Choose whole grains, fruits, vegetables, and lean proteins, such as fish and beans. Avoid or limit foods with a lot of saturated fat, trans fats, salt and sugar.
Exercise. Regular exercise helps control diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure â€” all risk factors for heart disease. With your provider's OK, aim for 30 to 60 minutes of physical activity most days of the week. Talk to your health care provider about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you. You may be told to avoid intense lifting, competition and extreme temperatures.
Maintain a healthy weight. Too much weight strains the heart. Being overweight increases the risk of high cholesterol, high blood pressure and diabetes.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for females and up to two drinks a day for males.
Control blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar. Ask your health care team how often you need to have your blood pressure, blood sugar and cholesterol levels checked.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health problems. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to a health care professional about strategies that might help.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to ease stress.
Symptoms for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) :
Symptoms of SCAD can include:
Chest pain or pressure.
Pain in the arms, shoulders, back or jaw.
Shortness of breath.
Unusual sweating.
Extreme tiredness.
Upset stomach.
A rapid heartbeat or fluttery feeling in the chest.
Feeling dizzy.
Causes for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) :
The cause of spontaneous coronary artery dissection is unknown.
Risk Factors for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD):
Risk factors for SCAD include:
Being female. SCAD can happen to anyone. But it tends to affect women more than men.
Childbirth. Some women who have had SCAD have recently given birth. This may be due to changes in hormones and stress on the blood vessels. SCAD has been found to occur most often in the first few weeks after delivery. But SCAD also can occur during pregnancy.
Extreme stress. SCAD can happen after extreme stress. This includes intense physical exercise and severe emotional distress.
Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD). This condition causes weakening of the body's medium-sized arteries. FMD may lead to artery problems such as aneurysm or dissection. Women are more likely to have it than men.
Genetic conditions affecting connective tissue. Ehlers-Danlos and Marfan syndromes have been found to occur in people who have had SCAD.
Very high blood pressure. Severe high blood pressure can raise the risk of SCAD.
Illegal drug use. Using cocaine or other illegal drugs might increase the risk of SCAD.
Complications for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD):
A possible complication of SCAD is heart attack. SCAD slows or stops blood flow through an artery. This weakens the heart and may lead to a heart attack. A heart attack from SCAD is different from a heart attack caused by a buildup of fats, cholesterol and other substances in and on the artery walls. This condition is called atherosclerosis.
In some people with SCAD, the inner and outer layers of the artery may split. Blood can collect between these layers. Pressure from the pooled blood can make SCAD worse.
Even with successful treatment, SCAD can happen more than once. It might happen soon after the first episode or years later. People who have SCAD also may have a higher risk of other heart problems. These problems include heart failure due to the heart attack damage.
There are no preventive measures available for Spontaneous coronary artery dissection (SCAD) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sprained ankle
Overview of Sprained ankle:
A sprained ankle is an injury that occurs when you roll, twist or turn your ankle in an awkward way. This can stretch or tear the tough bands of tissue (ligaments) that help hold your ankle bones together.
Ligaments help stabilize joints, preventing excessive movement. A sprained ankle occurs when the ligaments are forced beyond their normal range of motion. Most sprained ankles involve injuries to the ligaments on the outer side of the ankle.
Treatment for a sprained ankle depends on the severity of the injury. Although self-care measures and over-the-counter pain medications may be all you need, a medical evaluation might be necessary to reveal how badly you've sprained your ankle and to determine the appropriate treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Sprained ankle in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sprained ankle :
Signs and symptoms of a sprained ankle vary depending on the severity of the injury. They may include:
Pain, especially when you bear weight on the affected foot
Tenderness when you touch the ankle
Swelling
Bruising
Restricted range of motion
Instability in the ankle
Popping sensation or sound at the time of injury
Causes for Sprained ankle :
A sprain occurs when your ankle is forced to move out of its normal position, which can cause one or more of the ankle's ligaments to stretch, partially tear or tear completely.
Causes of a sprained ankle might include:
A fall that causes your ankle to twist
Landing awkwardly on your foot after jumping or pivoting
Walking or exercising on an uneven surface
Another person stepping or landing on your foot during a sports activity
Risk Factors for Sprained ankle:
Factors that increase your risk of a sprained ankle include:
Sports participation. Ankle sprains are a common sports injury, particularly in sports that require jumping, cutting action, or rolling or twisting of the foot such as basketball, tennis, football, soccer and trail running.
Uneven surfaces. Walking or running on uneven surfaces or poor field conditions may increase the risk of an ankle sprain.
Prior ankle injury. Once you've sprained your ankle or had another type of ankle injury, you're more likely to sprain it again.
Poor physical condition. Poor strength or flexibility in the ankles may increase the risk of a sprain when participating in sports.
Improper shoes. Shoes that don't fit properly or aren't appropriate for an activity, as well as high-heeled shoes in general, make ankles more vulnerable to injury.
Complications for Sprained ankle:
Failing to treat a sprained ankle properly, engaging in activities too soon after spraining your ankle or spraining your ankle repeatedly might lead to the following complications:
Chronic ankle pain
Chronic ankle joint instability
Arthritis in the ankle joint
Preventions for Sprained ankle
The following tips can help you prevent a sprained ankle or a recurring sprain:
Warm up before you exercise or play sports.
Be careful when walking, running or working on an uneven surface.
Use an ankle support brace or tape on a weak or previously injured ankle.
Wear shoes that fit well and are made for your activity.
Minimize wearing high-heeled shoes.
Don't play sports or participate in activities for which you are not conditioned.
Maintain good muscle strength and flexibility.
Practice stability training, including balance exercises.
Condition name:Sprains
Overview of Sprains:
A sprain is a stretching or tearing of ligaments — the tough bands of fibrous tissue that connect two bones together in your joints. The most common location for a sprain is in your ankle.
Initial treatment includes rest, ice, compression and elevation. Mild sprains can be successfully treated at home. Severe sprains sometimes require surgery to repair torn ligaments.
The difference between a sprain and a strain is that a sprain injures the bands of tissue that connect two bones together, while a strain involves an injury to a muscle or to the band of tissue that attaches a muscle to a bone.
There are no home remedies available for Sprains in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sprains :
Signs and symptoms will vary, depending on the severity of the injury, and may include:
Pain
Swelling
Bruising
Limited ability to move the affected joint
Hearing or feeling a "pop" in your joint at the time of injury
Causes for Sprains :
A sprain occurs when you overextend or tear a ligament while severely stressing a joint. Sprains often occur in the following circumstances:
Ankle — Walking or exercising on an uneven surface, landing awkwardly from a jump
Knee — Pivoting during an athletic activity
Wrist — Landing on an outstretched hand during a fall
Thumb — Skiing injury or overextension when playing racquet sports, such as tennis
Children have areas of softer tissue, called growth plates, near the ends of their bones. The ligaments around a joint are often stronger than these growth plates, so children are more likely to experience a fracture than a sprain.
Risk Factors for Sprains:
Factors contributing to sprains include:
Environmental conditions. Slippery or uneven surfaces can make you more prone to injury.
Fatigue. Tired muscles are less likely to provide good support for your joints. When you're tired, you're also more likely to succumb to forces that could stress a joint.
Poor equipment. Ill-fitting or poorly maintained footwear or other sporting equipment can contribute to your risk of a sprain.
There are no Complications available for Sprains in the knowledge basePreventions for Sprains
Regular stretching and strengthening exercises for your sport, fitness or work activity, as part of an overall physical conditioning program, can help to minimize your risk of sprains. Try to be in shape to play your sport; don't play your sport to get in shape. If you have a physically demanding occupation, regular conditioning can help prevent injuries.
You can protect your joints in the long term by working to strengthen and condition the muscles around the joint that has been injured. The best brace you can give yourself is your own "muscle brace." Ask your doctor about appropriate conditioning and stability exercises. Also, use footwear that offers support and protection.
Condition name:Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
Overview of Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin:
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin is a type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells on the skin. It starts in cells called squamous cells. The squamous cells make up the middle and outer layers of the skin. Squamous cell carcinoma is a common type of skin cancer.
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin is usually not life-threatening. But if it's not treated, squamous cell carcinoma of the skin can grow large or spread to other parts of the body. The growth of the cancer can cause serious complications.
Most squamous cell carcinomas of the skin are caused by too much ultraviolet (UV) radiation. UV radiation comes either from sunlight or from tanning beds or lamps. Protecting your skin from UV light can help reduce the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin and other forms of skin cancer.
Squamous cell carcinomas can be anywhere on the skin. In people who sunburn easily, the cancer is usually found on areas of skin that have had a lot of sun. In people with Black and brown skin, squamous cell carcinomas are more likely to be on skin that isn't exposed to sun, such as the genitals.
There are no home remedies available for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin :
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin most often occurs on sun-exposed skin. This includes the scalp, the backs of the hands, the ears or the lips. But it can occur anywhere on the body. It can even occur inside the mouth, on the bottoms of the feet or on the genitals. When squamous cell carcinoma of the skin happens in people with Black and brown skin, it tends to happen in places that aren't exposed to the sun.
Symptoms of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin include:
A firm bump on the skin, called a nodule. The nodule might be the same color as the skin, or it might look different. It can look pink, red, black or brown, depending on skin color.
A flat sore with a scaly crust.
A new sore or raised area on an old scar or sore.
A rough, scaly patch on the lip that may become an open sore.
A sore or rough patch inside the mouth.
A raised patch or wartlike sore on or in the anus or on the genitals.
Causes for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin :
Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin occurs when the squamous cells in the skin get changes in their DNA. Cells' DNA holds the instructions that tell cells what to do. The changes tell the squamous cells to multiply quickly. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle.
This causes too many cells. The cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes most of the DNA changes in skin cells. UV radiation can come from sunlight, tanning lamps and tanning beds.
But skin cancers also can grow on skin that's not usually in sunlight. This means that other factors might add to the risk of skin cancer. One such factor might be having a condition that weakens the immune system.
Risk Factors for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin:
Factors that can increase the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin include:
Having skin that sunburns easily. Anyone of any skin color can get squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. But it's more common in people who have low levels of melanin in their skin. Melanin is a substance that gives color to skin. It also helps protect the skin from damaging ultraviolet (UV) radiation. People with Black or brown skin have more melanin than people with white skin.
The risk of squamous cell carcinoma is highest in people who have blond or red hair, have light-colored eyes and freckle or sunburn easily.
Being in the sun too much. UV radiation from the sun increases the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Covering the skin with clothes or sunblock can help lower the risk.
Using tanning beds. People who use indoor tanning beds have an increased risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
Having a history of sunburns. Having had one or more sunburns that raised blisters as a child or teenager increases the risk of developing squamous cell carcinoma of the skin as an adult. Sunburns in adulthood also are a risk factor.
Having a history of precancerous skin lesions. Some types of skin sores can turn into skin cancer. Examples are actinic keratosis or Bowen disease. Having one of these conditions increases the risk of squamous cell carcinoma.
Having a history of skin cancer. People who've had squamous cell carcinoma of the skin once are much more likely to get it again.
Having a weakened immune system. People with weakened immune systems have an increased risk of skin cancer. This includes people who have leukemia or lymphoma. And it includes those who take medicines to control the immune system, such as those who have had organ transplants.
Having a rare genetic disorder. People with xeroderma pigmentosum, which causes great sensitivity to sunlight, have a greatly increased risk of developing skin cancer.
Having human papillomavirus infection (HPV). This common infection that's passed through sexual contact increases the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
Having scars or long-lasting wounds on the skin. Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin can form in scars, burns and sores that don't heal.
Complications for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin:
Untreated squamous cell carcinoma of the skin can destroy nearby healthy tissue. It can spread to the lymph nodes or other organs. And it can be fatal, although this is not common.
The risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin spreading may be higher if the cancer:
Grows very large or deep.
Involves the mucous membranes, such as the lips.
Occurs in a person with a weakened immune system. Examples of things that might cause a weakened immune system include having chronic leukemia or taking medicine to control the immune system after an organ transplant.
Preventions for Squamous cell carcinoma of the skin
Most squamous cell carcinomas of the skin can be prevented. To protect yourself:
Stay out of the sun during the middle of the day. For much of North America, the sun's rays are strongest between about 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. Plan outdoor activities at other times of the day, even during winter or when the sky is cloudy. When outside, stay in shade as much as possible.
Wear sunscreen year-round. Use a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously. Apply again every two hours, or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Wear protective clothing. Wear dark, tightly woven clothes that cover arms and legs. Wear a wide-brimmed hat that shades your face and ears. Don't forget sunglasses. Look for those that block both types of UV radiation, UVA and UVB rays.
Don't use tanning beds. The lights in tanning beds give off UV radiation. Using tanning beds increases the risk of skin cancer.
Check your skin often and report changes to your health care team. Look at your skin often for new growths. Look for changes in moles, freckles, bumps and birthmarks. Use mirrors to check your face, neck, ears and scalp.
Look at your chest and trunk and the tops and undersides of your arms and hands. Look at the front and back of your legs and your feet. Look at the bottom of the feet and the spaces between your toes. Also check your genital area and between your buttocks.
Condition name:Stage 4 prostate cancer
Overview of Stage 4 prostate cancer:
Stage 4 prostate cancer happens when cancer spreads beyond the prostate to other parts of the body.
Most prostate cancers are diagnosed when the cancer is only in the prostate. Sometimes prostate cancer doesn't cause symptoms, and the cancer may not be detected until it has spread. When prostate cancer spreads to other parts of the body, it's called metastatic cancer.
Treatments can slow or shrink a stage 4 prostate cancer. But most stage 4 prostate cancers can't be cured. Still, treatments can lengthen life and reduce symptoms of cancer.
There are no home remedies available for Stage 4 prostate cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Stage 4 prostate cancer :
Signs and symptoms of stage 4 prostate cancer may include:
Pain while urinating.
Trouble starting to urinate.
Trouble emptying the bladder all the way.
Weaker urine stream.
Urinating more often.
Blood in the urine or semen.
Pain in the back, hips or pelvis.
Tiredness.
Causes for Stage 4 prostate cancer :
The cause of stage 4 prostate cancer is not known. Stage 4 prostate cancer happens when prostate cancer cells break away from where they formed in the prostate. The cancer cells spread to other parts of the body.
Prostate cancer starts when cells in the prostate develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to replicate much more quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells form a mass called a tumor in the prostate. These tumors can grow to invade and destroy nearby healthy tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Prostate cancer cells that spread past the prostate most often go to the:
Lymph nodes.
Bones.
Liver.
Risk Factors for Stage 4 prostate cancer:
Factors that can increase the risk of stage 4 prostate cancer include:
Getting older. The risk of prostate cancer increases with age.
Having a family history of prostate cancer. Certain DNA changes that are passed from parents to children can increase the risk of prostate cancer. These inherited DNA changes also increase the risk of more-aggressive forms of prostate cancer.
Being Black. For reasons not yet known, Black people have a greater risk of prostate cancer than do people of other races. Black people also are more likely to have prostate cancer that is aggressive or advanced.
There are no Complications available for Stage 4 prostate cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Stage 4 prostate cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Stomach cancer
Overview of Stomach cancer:
Stomach cancer, which is also called gastric cancer, is a growth of cells that starts in the stomach. The stomach is in the upper middle part of the belly, just below the ribs. The stomach helps to break down and digest food.
Stomach cancer can happen in any part of the stomach. In most of the world, stomach cancers happen in the main part of the stomach. This part is called the stomach body.
In the United States, stomach cancer is more likely to start by the gastroesophageal junction. This is the part where the long tube that carries food you swallow meets the stomach. The tube that carries food to the stomach is called the esophagus.
Where the cancer starts in the stomach is one factor health care providers think about when making a treatment plan. Other factors might include the cancer's stage and the type of cells involved. Treatment often includes surgery to remove the stomach cancer. Other treatments may be used before and after surgery.
Stomach cancer treatment is most likely to be successful if the cancer is only in the stomach. The prognosis for people with small stomach cancers is quite good. Many can expect to be cured. Most stomach cancers are found when the disease is advanced and a cure is less likely. Stomach cancer that grows through the stomach wall or spreads to other parts of the body is harder to cure.
There are no home remedies available for Stomach cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Stomach cancer :
Signs and symptoms of stomach cancer may include:
Trouble swallowing
Belly pain
Feeling bloated after eating
Feeling full after eating small amounts of food
Not feeling hungry when you would expect to be hungry
Heartburn
Indigestion
Nausea
Vomiting
Losing weight without trying
Feeling very tired
Stools that look black
Stomach cancer doesn't always cause symptoms in its early stages. When they happen, symptoms might include indigestion and pain in the upper part of the belly. Symptoms might not happen until the cancer is advanced. Later stages of stomach cancer might cause symptoms such as feeling very tired, losing weight without trying, vomiting blood and having black stools.
Stomach cancer that spreads to other parts of the body is called metastatic stomach cancer. It causes symptoms specific to where it spreads. For example, when cancer spreads to the lymph nodes it might cause lumps you can feel through the skin. Cancer that spreads to the liver might cause yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes. If cancer spreads within the belly, it might cause fluid to fill the belly. The belly might look swollen.
Causes for Stomach cancer :
It's not clear what causes stomach cancer. Experts believe most stomach cancers start when something hurts the inside lining of the stomach. Examples include having an infection in the stomach, having long-standing acid reflux and eating a lot of salty foods. Not everyone with these risk factors gets stomach cancer, though. So more research is needed to find out exactly what causes it.
Stomach cancer begins when something hurts cells in the inner lining of the stomach. It causes the cells to develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The cells can go on living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural lifecycle. This causes a lot of extra cells in the stomach. The cells can form a mass called a tumor.
Cancer cells in the stomach can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. They might start to grow deeper into the wall of the stomach. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer cells spread to another part of the body it's called metastasis.
Risk Factors for Stomach cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of stomach cancer include:
Ongoing problems with stomach acid backing up into the esophagus, which is called gastroesophageal reflux disease
A diet high in salty and smoked foods
A diet low in fruits and vegetables
Infection in the stomach caused by a germ called Helicobacter pylori
Swelling and irritation of the inside of the stomach, which is called gastritis
Smoking
Growths of noncancerous cells in the stomach, called polyps
Family history of stomach cancer
Family history of genetic syndromes that increase the risk of stomach cancer and other cancers, such as hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, Lynch syndrome, juvenile polyposis syndrome, Peutz-Jeghers syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis
There are no Complications available for Stomach cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Stomach cancer
To lower the risk of stomach cancer, you can:
Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. Try to include fruits and vegetables in your diet each day. Choose a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Reduce the amount of salty and smoked foods you eat. Protect your stomach by limiting these foods.
Stop smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Smoking increases your risk of stomach cancer and many other types of cancer. Quitting smoking can be very hard, so ask your health care provider for help.
Tell your health care provider if stomach cancer runs in your family. People with a strong family history of stomach cancer might have stomach cancer screening. Screening tests can detect stomach cancer before it causes symptoms.
Condition name:Stress incontinence
Overview of Stress incontinence:
Urinary incontinence is the loss of bladder control. Stress incontinence happens when movement or activity puts pressure on the bladder, causing urine to leak. Movements include coughing, laughing, sneezing, running or heavy lifting. Stress incontinence is not related to mental stress.
Stress incontinence is not the same as urgency incontinence and overactive bladder (OAB). Those conditions cause the bladder muscle to spasm. This leads to a sudden need to urinate quickly. Stress incontinence is much more common in women than in men.
If you have stress incontinence, you may feel ashamed. You might limit your work and social life because you don't want to be with others. You also might not do physical or fun activities.
Treatment can help you manage stress incontinence and improve your quality of life.
Home Remedies for Stress incontinence:
Healthy lifestyle practices can ease symptoms of stress incontinence. These include:
Shed extra weight. If your body mass index (BMI) is 30 or higher, losing weight can help reduce the pressure on your bladder and pelvic floor muscles. Even a 10% weight loss may greatly improve stress incontinence. Talk to a member of your care team for help with weight loss.
Add fiber to your diet. Having trouble moving your bowls can add to urinary incontinence. Keeping bowel movements soft and regular eases the strain on your pelvic floor muscles. Try eating high-fiber foods to relieve and prevent constipation. High-fiber foods include whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables.
Symptoms for Stress incontinence :
If you have stress incontinence, you may leak urine when you:
Cough or sneeze.
Laugh.
Bend over.
Lift something heavy.
Exercise.
Have sex.
You might not leak urine every time you do one of these things. But any activity that puts pressure on your bladder can make leaking more likely. Having a full bladder increases the chances of leaking.
Causes for Stress incontinence :
Stress incontinence happens when certain muscles and other tissues linked to urinating weaken. These include the muscles that support the urethra, called the pelvic floor muscles, and the muscles that control the release of urine, called the urinary sphincter.
The bladder expands as it fills with urine. Most often, valve-like muscles in the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra, stay closed as the bladder expands. This keeps you from leaking urine until you reach a bathroom.
But when those muscles weaken, anything that puts force on the stomach and pelvic muscles put pressure on your bladder. Sneezing, bending over, lifting or laughing hard, for instance, can cause urine leakage.
Risk Factors for Stress incontinence:
Factors that increase the risk of getting stress incontinence include:
Age. Physical changes that happen with age, such as muscles getting weaker, may make you more likely to get stress incontinence. But some stress incontinence can happen at any age.
Body weight. People who are overweight or obese have a higher risk of stress incontinence. Excess weight increases pressure on the abdominal and pelvic organs.
For females, risks factors also include:
Type of childbirth delivery. People who've had a vaginal delivery are more likely to have urinary incontinence than are those who had a cesarean section. Having more than one child also raises the risk.
Complications for Stress incontinence:
Complications of stress incontinence may include:
Emotional upset. If you have stress incontinence, you may feel embarrassed. It can disrupt your work, social life, relationships and even your sex life. Some people are ashamed that they need pads or incontinence garments.
Mixed urinary incontinence. It's common to have both stress incontinence and urgency incontinence. Urinary incontinence results when bladder muscles tighten and cause an urgent need to urinate. People with this condition may have frequent urination, urination in the evening and urgency to urinate with or without associated incontinence. This is called overactive bladder.
Skin rash or soreness. Prolonged contact with urine can cause skin to be sore or to break down. This can happen with severe incontinence if you don't use moisture barriers or incontinence pads. Change pads often and use continence pads rather than menstrual pads to prevent skin sores.
There are no preventive measures available for Stress incontinence in the knowledge baseCondition name:Stroke
Overview of Stroke:
An ischemic stroke occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is blocked or reduced. This prevents brain tissue from getting oxygen and nutrients. Brain cells begin to die in minutes. Another type of stroke is a hemorrhagic stroke. It occurs when a blood vessel in the brain leaks or bursts and causes bleeding in the brain. The blood increases pressure on brain cells and damages them.
A stroke is a medical emergency. It's crucial to get medical treatment right away. Getting emergency medical help quickly can reduce brain damage and other stroke complications.
The good news is that fewer Americans die of stroke now than in the past. Effective treatments also can help prevent disability from stroke.
There are no home remedies available for Stroke in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Stroke :
If you or someone you're with may be having a stroke, pay attention to the time the symptoms began. Some treatments are most effective when given soon after a stroke begins.
Symptoms of stroke include:
Trouble speaking and understanding what others are saying. A person having a stroke may be confused, slur words or may not be able to understand speech.
Numbness, weakness or paralysis in the face, arm or leg. This often affects just one side of the body. The person can try to raise both arms over the head. If one arm begins to fall, it may be a sign of a stroke. Also, one side of the mouth may droop when trying to smile.
Problems seeing in one or both eyes. The person may suddenly have blurred or blackened vision in one or both eyes. Or the person may see double.
Headache. A sudden, severe headache may be a symptom of a stroke. Vomiting, dizziness and a change in consciousness may occur with the headache.
Trouble walking. Someone having a stroke may stumble or lose balance or coordination.
Causes for Stroke :
There are two main causes of stroke. An ischemic stroke is caused by a blocked artery in the brain. A hemorrhagic stroke is caused by leaking or bursting of a blood vessel in the brain. Some people may have only a temporary disruption of blood flow to the brain, known as a transient ischemic attack (TIA). A TIA doesn't cause lasting symptoms.
Risk Factors for Stroke:
Many factors can increase the risk of stroke. Potentially treatable stroke risk factors include:
Complications for Stroke:
A stroke can sometimes cause temporary or permanent disabilities. Complications depend on how long the brain lacks blood flow and which part is affected. Complications may include:
Loss of muscle movement, known as paralysis. You may become paralyzed on one side of the body. Or you may lose control of certain muscles, such as those on one side of the face or one arm.
Trouble talking or swallowing. A stroke might affect the muscles in the mouth and throat. This can make it hard to talk clearly, swallow or eat. You also may have trouble with language, including speaking or understanding speech, reading or writing.
Memory loss or trouble thinking. Many people who have had strokes experience some memory loss. Others may have trouble thinking, reasoning, making judgments and understanding concepts.
Emotional symptoms. People who have had strokes may have more trouble controlling their emotions. Or they may develop depression.
Pain. Pain, numbness or other feelings may occur in the parts of the body affected by stroke. If a stroke causes you to lose feeling in the left arm, you may develop a tingling sensation in that arm.
Changes in behavior and self-care. People who have had strokes may become more withdrawn. They also may need help with grooming and daily chores.
Preventions for Stroke
You can take steps to prevent a stroke. It's important to know your stroke risk factors and follow the advice of your healthcare professional about healthy lifestyle strategies. If you've had a stroke, these measures might help prevent another stroke. If you have had a transient ischemic attack (TIA), these steps can help lower your risk of a stroke. The follow-up care you receive in the hospital and afterward also may play a role.
Many stroke prevention strategies are the same as strategies to prevent heart disease. In general, healthy lifestyle recommendations include:
Control high blood pressure, known as hypertension. This is one of the most important things you can do to reduce your stroke risk. If you've had a stroke, lowering your blood pressure can help prevent a TIA or stroke in the future. Healthy lifestyle changes and medicines often are used to treat high blood pressure.
Lower the amount of cholesterol and saturated fat in your diet. Eating less cholesterol and fat, especially saturated fats and trans fats, may reduce buildup in the arteries. If you can't control your cholesterol through dietary changes alone, you may need a cholesterol-lowering medicine.
Quit tobacco use. Smoking raises the risk of stroke for smokers and nonsmokers exposed to secondhand smoke. Quitting lowers your risk of stroke.
Manage diabetes. Diet, exercise and losing weight can help you keep your blood sugar in a healthy range. If lifestyle factors aren't enough to control blood sugar, you may be prescribed diabetes medicine.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight contributes to other stroke risk factors, such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
Eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. Eating five or more servings of fruits or vegetables every day may reduce the risk of stroke. The Mediterranean diet, which emphasizes olive oil, fruit, nuts, vegetables and whole grains, may be helpful.
Exercise regularly. Aerobic exercise reduces the risk of stroke in many ways. Exercise can lower blood pressure, increase the levels of good cholesterol, and improve the overall health of the blood vessels and heart. It also helps you lose weight, control diabetes and reduce stress. Gradually work up to at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity on most or all days of the week. The American Heart association recommends getting 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous aerobic activity a week. Moderate intensity activities can include walking, jogging, swimming and bicycling.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. Drinking large amounts of alcohol increases the risk of high blood pressure, ischemic strokes and hemorrhagic strokes. Alcohol also may interact with other medicines you're taking. However, drinking small to moderate amounts of alcohol may help prevent ischemic stroke and decrease the blood's clotting tendency. A small to moderate amount is about one drink a day. Talk to your healthcare professional about what's appropriate for you.
Treat obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). OSA is a sleep disorder that causes you to stop breathing for short periods several times during sleep. Your healthcare professional may recommend a sleep study if you have symptoms of OSA. Treatment includes a device that delivers positive airway pressure through a mask to keep the airway open while you sleep.
Don't use illicit drugs. Certain illicit drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine are established risk factors for a TIA or a stroke.
Condition name:Stuttering
Overview of Stuttering:
Stuttering is a speech condition that disrupts the normal flow of speech. Fluency means having an easy and smooth flow and rhythm when speaking. With stuttering, the interruptions in flow happen often and cause problems for the speaker. Other names for stuttering are stammering and childhood-onset fluency disorder.
People who stutter know what they want to say, but they have a hard time saying it. For example, they may repeat or stretch out a word, a syllable, or a consonant or vowel sound. Or they may pause during speech because they've reached a word or sound that's hard to get out.
Stuttering is common among young children as a usual part of learning to speak. Some young children may stutter when their speech and language abilities aren't developed enough to keep up with what they want to say. Most children outgrow this type of stuttering, called developmental stuttering.
But sometimes stuttering is a long-term condition that remains into adulthood. This type of stuttering can affect self-esteem and communicating with other people.
Children and adults who stutter may be helped by treatments such as speech therapy, electronic devices to improve speech fluency or a form of mental health therapy called cognitive behavioral therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Stuttering in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Stuttering :
Stuttering symptoms may include:
Having a hard time starting a word, phrase or sentence.
Stretching out a word or sounds within a word.
Repeating a sound, syllable or word.
Brief silence for certain syllables or words, or pausing before or within a word.
Adding extra words such as "um" if expecting to have problems moving to the next word.
A lot of tension, tightness or movement of the face or upper body when saying a word.
Anxiety about talking.
Not being able to communicate well with others.
These actions may happen when stuttering:
Rapid eye blinks.
Trembling of the lips or jaw.
Unusual face movements, sometimes called facial tics.
Head nodding.
Tightening of fists.
Stuttering may be worse when the person is excited, tired or under stress, or when feeling self-conscious, hurried or pressured. Situations such as speaking in front of a group or talking on the phone can be especially hard for people who stutter.
But most people who stutter can speak without stuttering when they talk to themselves and when they sing or speak along with someone else.
Causes for Stuttering :
Researchers continue to study the underlying causes of developmental stuttering. A combination of factors may be involved.
Risk Factors for Stuttering:
Males are much more likely to stutter than females are. Things that raise the risk of stuttering include:
Having a childhood developmental condition. Children who have developmental conditions, such as attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, autism or developmental delays, may be more likely to stutter. This is true for children with other speech problems too.
Having relatives who stutter. Stuttering tends to run in families.
Stress. Stress in the family and other types of stress or pressure can worsen existing stuttering.
Complications for Stuttering:
Stuttering can lead to:
Problems communicating with others.
Not speaking or staying away from situations that require speaking.
Not taking part in social, school or work activities and opportunities for success.
Being bullied or teased.
Low self-esteem.
There are no preventive measures available for Stuttering in the knowledge baseCondition name:Subarachnoid hemorrhage
Overview of Subarachnoid hemorrhage:
A subarachnoid hemorrhage is bleeding in the space between the brain and the tissues that cover the brain. The space is known as the subarachnoid space. A subarachnoid hemorrhage is a type of stroke. It is a medical emergency that needs treatment right away.
The primary symptom of a subarachnoid hemorrhage is a sudden, very bad headache. Some people describe it as the worst headache they have ever felt. A subarachnoid hemorrhage also may cause nausea, vomiting, a stiff neck and other symptoms.
Bleeding usually happens when an irregular bulge in a blood vessel, known as an aneurysm, bursts in the brain. Bleeding also can happen because of a head injury. Sometimes a tangle of blood vessels in the brain, known as an arteriovenous malformation, causes the bleeding. And other health conditions, including conditions that affect the blood vessels, can cause bleeding.
If a subarachnoid hemorrhage isn't treated, it can lead to permanent brain damage or death, so it's important to get treatment right away.
There are no home remedies available for Subarachnoid hemorrhage in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Subarachnoid hemorrhage :
The most common symptom of a subarachnoid hemorrhage is a very sudden, very bad headache. The headache starts in a split second and becomes very painful right away. Some people describe it as the worst headache they have ever had.
Along with a sudden headache, symptoms may include:
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Stiff neck or neck pain.
Changes in vision.
Brief loss of consciousness.
Causes for Subarachnoid hemorrhage :
A subarachnoid hemorrhage may be caused by:
A brain aneurysm that bursts. A brain aneurysm is a bulge in a blood vessel in the brain. The aneurysm can burst and cause bleeding in the space between the brain and the tissues covering the brain, known as the subarachnoid space. A brain aneurysm is the most common cause of a subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Head injury. Another common cause is a head injury. A head injury from an auto accident, fall or violence can lead to a subarachnoid hemorrhage.
A tangle of blood vessels in the brain, known as an arteriovenous malformation. This irregular tangle of blood vessels can rupture and cause bleeding in the brain.
Swelling of the blood vessels, known as vasculitis. This can cause the walls of the blood vessels to thicken and narrow. Vasculitis can lead to a blood clot or an aneurysm.
Risk Factors for Subarachnoid hemorrhage:
Some risk factors for a subarachnoid hemorrhage are not under your control. They include:
Being an older age. Most subarachnoid hemorrhages that result from an aneurysm occur in people between ages 55 and 60. Women in their 50s and 60s, in particular, have a higher risk.
Having a first-degree relative with a brain aneurysm. This includes a parent, child or sibling related by blood
Having certain health conditions. Conditions that increase the risk of a subarachnoid hemorrhage include Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Marfan syndrome, neurofibromatosis type 1 and polycystic kidney disease.
People who have two or more first-degree relatives with brain aneurysms or who have had a subarachnoid hemorrhage can get screened.
Other risk factors for a subarachnoid hemorrhage can be avoided. They include:
Having high blood pressure.
Smoking.
Misusing alcohol.
Using drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine.
There are no Complications available for Subarachnoid hemorrhage in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Subarachnoid hemorrhage in the knowledge baseCondition name:Sudden cardiac arrest
Overview of Sudden cardiac arrest:
Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is the sudden loss of all heart activity due to an irregular heart rhythm. Breathing stops. The person becomes unconscious. Without immediate treatment, sudden cardiac arrest can lead to death.
Emergency treatment for sudden cardiac arrest includes cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and shocks to the heart with a device called an automated external defibrillator (AED). Survival is possible with fast, appropriate medical care.
Sudden cardiac arrest isn't the same as a heart attack. A heart attack happens when blood flow to a part of the heart is blocked. Sudden cardiac arrest is not due to a blockage. However, a heart attack can cause a change in the heart's electrical activity that leads to sudden cardiac arrest.
Home Remedies for Sudden cardiac arrest:
Preventing sudden cardiac arrest starts with keeping the heart and blood vessels in good shape. To live a heart-healthy lifestyle:
Don't smoke.
Achieve and maintain a healthy weight.
If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation â€” no more than one drink a day for women and men older than 65 and no more than two drinks a day for younger men.
Eat a heart-healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Manage stress.
Training
If you live with someone who is at risk of sudden cardiac arrest, it's important that you be trained in CPR. The American Red Cross and other organizations offer courses in CPR and defibrillator use.
Being trained will help not only your loved one, but your training might help others. The more people know how to respond to a heart emergency, the greater the survival rate for sudden cardiac arrest is likely to be.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Sudden cardiac arrest :
Symptoms of sudden cardiac arrest are immediate and severe and include:
Sudden collapse.
No pulse.
No breathing.
Loss of consciousness.
Sometimes other symptoms occur before sudden cardiac arrest. These might include:
Chest discomfort.
Shortness of breath.
Weakness.
Fast-beating, fluttering or pounding heart called palpitations.
But sudden cardiac arrest often occurs with no warning.
Causes for Sudden cardiac arrest :
A change in the heart's electrical activity causes sudden cardiac arrest. The change makes the heart stop pumping blood. No blood flow goes to the body.
Risk Factors for Sudden cardiac arrest:
The same things that increase the risk of heart disease can raise the risk of sudden cardiac arrest. These include:
A family history of coronary artery disease.
Smoking.
High blood pressure.
High blood cholesterol.
Obesity.
Diabetes.
An inactive lifestyle.
Other things that might increase the risk of sudden cardiac arrest include:
A previous episode of sudden cardiac arrest or a family history of it.
A previous heart attack.
A personal or family history of other forms of heart disease such as heart rhythm problems, heart failure and heart problems present at birth.
Growing older — the risk of sudden cardiac arrest increases with age.
Being male.
Using illegal drugs such as cocaine or amphetamines.
Low potassium or magnesium levels.
A sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea.
Chronic kidney disease.
Complications for Sudden cardiac arrest:
When sudden cardiac arrest occurs, less blood flows to the brain. If the heart rhythm isn't rapidly restored, complications may include brain damage and death.
Preventions for Sudden cardiac arrest
Keeping the heart healthy may help prevent sudden cardiac arrest. You can do this by:
Eating healthy.
Getting regular checkups.
Not smoking or using tobacco.
Being screened for heart disease.
Controlling blood pressure and cholesterol.
Genetic tests can be done to see if you have long QT syndrome, a common cause of sudden cardiac death. Check with your insurer to see if it is covered. If you have the long QT gene, your health care provider may recommend that other family members also be tested.
If you have a known risk of cardiac arrest, your health care provider might recommend a heart device called an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). The device is placed under your collarbone.
You also might consider purchasing an automated external defibrillator (AED) for home use. Discuss this with your health care provider. AEDs help reset the heart's rhythm when a person has sudden cardiac arrest. But they can be expensive and aren't always covered by health insurance.
Condition name:Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
Overview of Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS):
Sudden infant death syndrome is the unexplained death of a baby. The baby is usually less than a year old and seems to be healthy. It often happens during sleep. Sudden infant death syndrome also is known as SIDS. It is sometimes called crib death because infants often die in their cribs.
The cause of SIDS is unknown. But it may be caused by problems in the area of an infant's brain that controls breathing and waking up from sleep.
Researchers have found some things that might put babies at higher risk. They've also found some things you can do to help protect your child from SIDS. The most important action may be to place a baby on the back to sleep.
There are no home remedies available for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) :
Not found
Causes for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) :
Both physical and sleep factors put an infant at risk of SIDS. These factors vary from child to child.
Risk Factors for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS):
SIDS can happen to any infant. But researchers have found several factors that might raise the risk. They include:
Sex. Boys are slightly more likely than girls to die of SIDS.
Age. Infants are at higher risk between the second and fourth months of life.
Race. For reasons that aren't well understood, SIDS occurs more often in Black, Native American and Alaska Native infants.
Family history. Babies with siblings who died of SIDS are at higher risk of SIDS.
Secondhand smoke. Babies who live with smokers have a higher risk of SIDS.
Premature birth. Being born early and having a low birth weight increase a baby's chances of SIDS.
There are no Complications available for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) in the knowledge basePreventions for Sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)
There's no definite way to prevent SIDS. But you can help your baby sleep more safely by following these tips:
Back to sleep. Place your baby to sleep in the correct position — on the back. Be sure to use the back position every time you or anyone else puts your baby to sleep for the first year of life. Don't trust that others will place your baby to sleep in the correct position: Insist on it. This won't be needed once your baby can roll over both ways without help.
Don't put your baby on the stomach or side to sleep. Advise a caregiver to only use the stomach position when the baby and caregiver are both in the same room and both are awake. Short periods of "tummy time" help a baby build muscle strength. But the baby should never be left alone during tummy time.
Keep the crib as bare as possible. Use a firm, flat mattress. Make sure the mattress does not sit at an angle higher than 10 degrees. Avoid placing your baby on thick, fluffy padding, such as lambskin or a thick quilt. Don't leave pillows, fluffy toys or stuffed animals in the crib. They can cause problems with breathing if your baby's face presses against them.
Don't overheat your baby. To keep your baby warm, try a sleep sack. Or dress your baby in layers instead of using blankets. Don't cover your baby's head.
Have your baby sleep in your room. If possible, your baby should sleep in your room with you, but not in the same bed. Have your baby sleep alone in a crib or bassinet with a mattress designed for infant bedding. Your baby should sleep in the same room with you for at least six months.
Adult beds aren't safe for infants. A baby can become trapped and suffocate between the headboard slats. Those are the spaces between the mattress and the bed frame. A baby also can get trapped in the space between the mattress and the wall. And a baby can suffocate if a sleeping parent accidentally rolls over and covers the baby's nose and mouth.
Breastfeed your baby, if possible. Breastfeeding for at least six months to a year lowers the risk of SIDS.
Don't use baby monitors and other commercial devices that claim to reduce the risk of SIDS. The American Academy of Pediatrics discourages the use of monitors and other devices. These devices do not prevent SIDS. And they cannot be used instead of safe sleep practices.
Offer a pacifier. Sucking on a pacifier at nap time or bedtime may reduce the risk of SIDS. Make sure the pacifier does not have a strap or cord. If you're breastfeeding, wait to offer a pacifier until you and your baby have settled into a nursing routine. It usually takes 3 to 4 weeks to set up a nursing routine.
If your baby is not interested in the pacifier, don't force it. Try again another day. If the pacifier falls out while your baby is sleeping, don't put it back in.
Vaccinate your baby. There's no evidence that recommended shots to protect against diseases increase the risk of SIDS. Some evidence shows that such shots may help prevent SIDS.
Condition name:Suicide and suicidal thoughts
Overview of Suicide and suicidal thoughts:
Suicide, taking your own life, is a tragic reaction to stressful life situations — and all the more tragic because suicide can be prevented. Whether you're considering suicide or know someone who feels suicidal, learn suicide warning signs and how to reach out for immediate help and professional treatment. You may save a life — your own or someone else's.
It may seem like there's no way to solve your problems and that suicide is the only way to end the pain. But you can take steps to stay safe — and start enjoying your life again.
Home Remedies for Suicide and suicidal thoughts:
There's no substitute for professional help when it comes to treating suicidal thinking and preventing suicide. However, there are a few things that may reduce suicide risk:
Avoid drugs and alcohol. Alcohol and recreational drugs can worsen suicidal thoughts. They can also make you feel less inhibited, which means you're more likely to act on your thoughts.
Form a strong support network. That may include family, friends or members of your church, synagogue or other place of worship. Religious practice has been shown to help reduce the risk of suicide.
Get active. Physical activity and exercise have been shown to reduce depression symptoms. Consider walking, jogging, swimming, gardening or taking up another form of physical activity that you enjoy.
Symptoms for Suicide and suicidal thoughts :
Suicide warning signs or suicidal thoughts include:
Talking about suicide — for example, making statements such as "I'm going to kill myself," "I wish I were dead" or "I wish I hadn't been born"
Getting the means to take your own life, such as buying a gun or stockpiling pills
Withdrawing from social contact and wanting to be left alone
Having mood swings, such as being emotionally high one day and deeply discouraged the next
Being preoccupied with death, dying or violence
Feeling trapped or hopeless about a situation
Increasing use of alcohol or drugs
Changing normal routine, including eating or sleeping patterns
Doing risky or self-destructive things, such as using drugs or driving recklessly
Giving away belongings or getting affairs in order when there's no other logical explanation for doing this
Saying goodbye to people as if they won't be seen again
Developing personality changes or being severely anxious or agitated, particularly when experiencing some of the warning signs listed above
Warning signs aren't always obvious, and they may vary from person to person. Some people make their intentions clear, while others keep suicidal thoughts and feelings secret.
Causes for Suicide and suicidal thoughts :
Suicidal thoughts have many causes. Most often, suicidal thoughts are the result of feeling like you can't cope when you're faced with what seems to be an overwhelming life situation. If you don't have hope for the future, you may mistakenly think suicide is a solution. You may experience a sort of tunnel vision, where in the middle of a crisis you believe suicide is the only way out.
There also may be a genetic link to suicide. People who complete suicide or who have suicidal thoughts or behavior are more likely to have a family history of suicide.
Risk Factors for Suicide and suicidal thoughts:
Although attempted suicide is more frequent for women, men are more likely than women to complete suicide because they typically use more-lethal methods, such as a firearm.
You may be at risk of suicide if you:
Attempted suicide before
Feel hopeless, worthless, agitated, socially isolated or lonely
Experience a stressful life event, such as the loss of a loved one, military service, a breakup, or financial or legal problems
Have a substance abuse problem — alcohol and drug abuse can worsen thoughts of suicide and make you feel reckless or impulsive enough to act on your thoughts
Have suicidal thoughts and have access to firearms in your home
Have an underlying psychiatric disorder, such as major depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or bipolar disorder
Have a family history of mental disorders, substance abuse, suicide, or violence, including physical or sexual abuse
Have a medical condition that can be linked to depression and suicidal thinking, such as chronic disease, chronic pain or terminal illness
Are lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender with an unsupportive family or in a hostile environment
Complications for Suicide and suicidal thoughts:
Suicidal thoughts and attempted suicide take an emotional toll. For instance, you may be so consumed by suicidal thoughts that you can't function in your daily life. And while many attempted suicides are impulsive acts during a moment of crisis, they can leave you with permanent serious or severe injuries, such as organ failure or brain damage.
For those left behind after a suicide — people known as survivors of suicide — grief, anger, depression and guilt are common.
Preventions for Suicide and suicidal thoughts
To help keep yourself from feeling suicidal:
Get the treatment you need. If you don't treat the underlying cause, your suicidal thoughts are likely to return. You may feel embarrassed to seek treatment for mental health problems, but getting the right treatment for depression, substance misuse or another underlying problem will make you feel better about life — and help keep you safe.
Establish your support network. It may be hard to talk about suicidal feelings, and your friends and family may not fully understand why you feel the way you do. Reach out anyway, and make sure the people who care about you know what's going on and are there when you need them. You may also want to get help from your place of worship, support groups or other community resources. Feeling connected and supported can help reduce suicide risk.
Remember, suicidal feelings are temporary. If you feel hopeless or that life's not worth living anymore, remember that treatment can help you regain your perspective — and life will get better. Take one step at a time and don't act impulsively.
Condition name:Sun allergy
Overview of Sun allergy:
Sun allergy is a broad term. It describes several conditions that cause an itchy rash to form on the skin after being in sunlight or other sources of ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Polymorphous light eruption is the most common form of sun allergy.
Some people have a hereditary type of sun allergy. Others develop symptoms only when triggered by another factor — such as taking medication or touching certain plants. Other types of sun-related reactions occur for reasons that are unclear.
Mild sun allergy may clear up without treatment. Severe rashes may be treated with steroid creams or pills. If you have severe sun allergy, you may need to take preventive steps. For example, wear clothing that shields you from the sun.
Home Remedies for Sun allergy:
These steps may help relieve sun allergy symptoms:
Avoid sun exposure. Most sun allergy symptoms improve in less than a day or two if you keep the affected skin out of the sun.
Stop using medications that make you sensitive to light. If you're taking medications for other conditions, talk with your health care provider about whether you can stop taking them if they are making your skin more sensitive to the sun.
Apply moisturizers. Moisturizing skin lotions can help relieve irritation caused by dry, scaly skin.
Symptoms for Sun allergy :
How skin with sun allergy looks varies widely depending on the color of your skin and what's causing the symptoms. Signs and symptoms may include:
Itchiness (pruritus)
Stinging
Tiny bumps that may merge into raised patches
A flushing of the exposed area
Blisters or hives
Symptoms usually occur only on skin that has been exposed to the sun or other source of UV light. Symptoms show up within minutes to hours after sun exposure.
Causes for Sun allergy :
Causes of sun allergy include immune system reactions to sunlight, certain medications and chemicals that make the skin more sensitive to the sun. It isn't clear why some people have a sun allergy and others don't. Inherited traits may play a role.
Risk Factors for Sun allergy:
Risk factors for having an allergic reaction to sunlight include:
Contact with certain substances. Some sun allergy symptoms are triggered when your skin is exposed to a substance and then to sunlight. Common substances responsible for this type of reaction include fragrances, disinfectants and chemicals used in some sunscreens.
Taking certain medications. A number of medications can make the skin sunburn more quickly — including tetracycline antibiotics, sulfa-based drugs and pain relievers, such as ketoprofen.
Having another skin condition. Having dermatitis increases your risk of having a sun allergy.
Having a blood relative with a sun allergy. You're more likely to have a sun allergy if you have a sibling or parent with a sun allergy.
There are no Complications available for Sun allergy in the knowledge basePreventions for Sun allergy
If you have a sun allergy or an increased sensitivity to the sun, you can help prevent a reaction by taking these steps:
Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The sun's rays are strongest during these hours. Try to schedule outdoor activities for other times. If you can't do that, limit the time you're in the sun. Seek shade when possible.
Avoid sudden exposure to lots of sunlight. Many people have sun allergy symptoms seasonally. Symptoms occur when daylight hours get longer and people are exposed to more sunlight. At these times, gradually increase the amount of time you spend outdoors so that your skin has time to adapt to increased sunlight.
Wear sunglasses and protective clothing. Long-sleeved shirts and wide-brimmed hats can help protect your skin from sun exposure. Avoid fabrics that are thin or have a loose weave — UV rays can pass through them.
Apply sunscreen. Use a water-resistant, broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously, and reapply every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring.
If you're using a product that contains physical blockers (titanium dioxide, zinc oxide), apply it over any other products you're wearing — except insect repellent. Insect repellent goes on last. Physical blockers provide the most effective protection for sensitive skin.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires all sunscreen to retain its original strength for at least three years. Check sunscreen labels for directions on storing and expiration dates. Throw away sunscreen if it's expired or more than 3 years old.
Avoid known triggers. If you know that a certain substance causes your skin reaction, such as a medication or contact with wild parsnip or limes, avoid that trigger.
Apply UV-blocking window film. Put a UV-blocking film on the windows of your home and car.
Condition name:Sunburn
Overview of Sunburn:
Sunburn is inflamed, painful skin that feels hot to the touch. It often appears within a few hours of being in the sun too long.
You can get sunburn relief with simple self-care measures such as taking pain relievers and cooling the skin. But it may take days for the sunburn to fade.
Preventing sunburn year-round by wearing sunscreen or using other skin-protection habits is important for everyone. It is especially important when you're outdoors, even on cool or cloudy days.
Home Remedies for Sunburn:
Try these self-care tips for sunburn relief:
Take a pain reliever. For pain relief, take a nonprescription pain reliever as soon as possible after getting too much sun. Examples include ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and acetaminophen (Tylenol, others). Or try a gel pain reliever that you rub on the skin.
Cool the skin. Apply to the affected skin a clean towel dampened with cool tap water. Or take a cool bath with added baking soda â€” about 2 ounces (60 grams) a tub. Cool the skin for about 10 minutes several times a day.
Apply a moisturizer, lotion or gel. An aloe vera lotion or gel or calamine lotion can be soothing. Try cooling the product in the refrigerator before applying. Avoid products made with alcohol.
Drink extra water for a day. This helps prevent dehydration.
Leave blisters alone. An intact blister can help the skin heal. If a blister does break, trim off the dead skin with a clean, small scissors. Gently clean the area with mild soap and water. Then apply an antibiotic ointment to the wound and cover it with a nonstick bandage.
Treat peeling skin gently. Within a few days, the affected area may begin to peel. This is your body's way of getting rid of the top layer of damaged skin. While your skin is peeling, keep using moisturizer.
Take an anti-itch drug. An oral antihistamine such as diphenhydramine (Benadryl, Chlor-Trimeton, others) might help relieve itching as the skin begins to peel and heal underneath.
Apply a soothing medicated cream. For mild to moderate sunburn, apply nonprescription 1% hydrocortisone cream to the affected area three times a day for three days. Try cooling the product in the refrigerator before applying.
Treat sunburned eyes. Apply a clean towel dampened with cool tap water. Don't wear contacts until your eye symptoms have gone away. Don't rub your eyes.
Protect yourself from further sun exposure. While your sunburn heals, stay out of the sun or use other sun-protection measures. You might try a product that has moisturizers and sunscreen.
Avoid applying '-caine' products, such as benzocaine. Such creams can irritate the skin or cause an allergic reaction. Benzocaine has been linked to a rare but potentially deadly condition that decreases the amount of oxygen that the blood can carry (methemoglobinemia).
Don't use benzocaine on children younger than age 2 without supervision from a health care provider. If you're an adult, never use more than the recommended dose and consider talking with your health care provider before using it.
Symptoms for Sunburn :
Sunburn symptoms can include:
Inflamed skin, which looks pink or red on white skin and may be harder to see on brown or Black skin.
Skin that feels warm or hot to the touch.
Pain, tenderness and itching.
Swelling.
Small, fluid-filled blisters, which may break.
Headache, fever, nausea and fatigue, if the sunburn is severe.
Eyes that feel painful or gritty.
Any exposed part of the body — including the earlobes, scalp and lips — can burn. Even covered areas can burn if, for example, clothing has a loose weave that allows ultraviolet (UV) light through. The eyes, which are extremely sensitive to the sun's UV light, also can burn.
Sunburn symptoms often appear within a few hours after sun exposure.
Within a few days, the body may start to heal itself by peeling the damaged skin's top layer. A bad sunburn may take several days to heal. Any lingering changes in skin color usually go away with time.
Causes for Sunburn :
Sunburn is caused by too much exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light. UV light may be from the sun or artificial sources, such as sunlamps and tanning beds. UVA is the wavelength of light that can penetrate to the deep layers of skin and lead to skin damage over time. UVB is the wavelength of light that penetrates the skin more superficially and causes sunburn.
The UV light damages skin cells. The immune system reacts by increasing blood flow to the affected areas, which causes the inflamed skin (erythema) known as sunburn.
You can get sunburn on cool or cloudy days. Surfaces such as snow, sand and water can reflect UV rays and burn skin too.
Risk Factors for Sunburn:
Risk factors for sunburn include:
Having white skin and red hair.
Having a history of sunburn.
Living or vacationing somewhere sunny, warm or at high altitude.
Working outdoors.
Swimming or spraying your skin with water or baby oil, as wet skin tends to burn more than does dry skin.
Mixing outdoor recreation and drinking alcohol.
Regularly exposing unprotected skin to UV light from sunlight or artificial sources, such as tanning beds.
Taking a drug that makes you more likely to burn (photosensitizing medication).
Complications for Sunburn:
Intense, repeated sun exposure that results in sunburn increases your risk of other skin damage and certain diseases. These include premature aging of skin (photoaging), precancerous skin lesions and skin cancer.
Preventions for Sunburn
Use these methods to prevent sunburn, even on cool, cloudy or hazy days. Sun exposure on cloudy days is decreased by about 20%. Be extra careful around water, snow, concrete and sand because they reflect the sun's rays. In addition, UV light is more intense at high altitudes.
Avoid sun exposure between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. The sun's rays are strongest during these hours, so try to schedule outdoor activities for other times. If you can't do that, limit the time you're in the sun. Seek shade when possible.
Avoid sun tanning and tanning beds. Getting a base tan doesn't decrease your risk of sunburn. If you use a self-tanning product to look tan, also apply a sunscreen before going outdoors.
Use sunscreen often and generously. Use water-resistant, broad-spectrum lip balm and sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Broad-spectrum products offer protection against ultraviolet A (UVA) and ultraviolet B (UVB) rays. SPF 30 blocks 97% of UVB rays. No sunscreen can block 100% of the sun's UVB rays.
About 30 minutes before going outdoors, generously apply your sunscreen to clean, dry skin. Use at least 2 tablespoons of sunscreen, or 1 ounce, to cover all surfaces of the exposed skin, except the eyelids. If you're using spray sunscreen, spray it into your hands and then rub it into the skin. This helps avoid inhaling the product. Don't use a spray product while smoking or near an open flame.
If you're using a product that contains physical blockers (titanium oxide, zinc oxide), apply it over any other products you're wearing — except insect repellent. Insect repellent goes on last. Physical blockers provide the most effective protection for sensitive skin.
Reapply sunscreen every two hours — or more often if you're swimming or perspiring. If you're wearing makeup and want to reapply your sunscreen without redoing your whole face, one option is to use an SPF powder over makeup.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requires all sunscreen to retain its original strength for at least three years. Check sunscreen labels for directions on storing and expiration dates. Throw away sunscreen if it's expired or more than three years old.
Protect babies and toddlers. Protect babies and toddlers from sunburn with brimmed hats and lightweight clothing that covers the arms and legs. Keep them cool, hydrated and out of direct sunlight. When that's not possible, the American Academy of Pediatrics suggests applying sunscreen with an SPF of at least 15 to the face and back of the hands. The American Academy of Dermatology and the FDA don't suggest sunscreen for children under 6 months.
If sun-protective clothing and shade aren't available, sunscreens containing zinc oxide or titanium dioxide are the next best choice.
Cover up. When outside, other items such as umbrellas or wide-brimmed hats can offer protection in addition to sunscreen. Dark clothing with a tight weave offers more protection. Consider using outdoor gear specially designed to provide sun protection. Check the label for its ultraviolet protection factor (UPF), which tells how well a fabric blocks sunlight. The higher the UPF number, the better.
Wear sunglasses when outdoors. Choose sunglasses with UVA and UVB protection. Check the UV rating on the label when buying new glasses. Darker lenses don't always mean better UV protection. It also helps to wear sunglasses that fit close to your face or have wraparound frames.
Be aware of sun-sensitizing medications and cosmetics. Some common prescription and nonprescription drugs can make skin more sensitive to sunlight. Examples include antibiotics, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and cholesterol-lowering drugs. Talk with your pharmacist or health care provider about the side effects of drugs you take. Cosmetics that contain alpha-hydroxy acids also increase sun sensitivity.
Condition name:Supraventricular tachycardia
Overview of Supraventricular tachycardia:
Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a type of irregular heartbeat, also called an arrhythmia. It's a very fast or erratic heartbeat that affects the heart's upper chambers. SVT also is called paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.
The typical heart beats about 60 to 100 times a minute. During SVT, the heart beats about 150 to 220 times a minute. Occasionally it beats faster or slower.
Most people with supraventricular tachycardia don't need treatment. When recommended, treatment may include specific actions or movements, medicines, a heart procedure, or a device to control the heartbeat.
Home Remedies for Supraventricular tachycardia:
If you have supraventricular tachycardia, a heart-healthy lifestyle is an important part of your treatment plan.
Try these tips to keep the heart healthy:
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. If you smoke and can't quit, talk to your care team about programs or treatments that can help.
Eat healthy foods. Choose fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Limit salt and saturated fats.
Get regular exercise. Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week. Talk to your healthcare team about the amount and type of exercise that's best for you.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Ask your healthcare team what weight is best for you.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed. Get regular health checkups.
Manage stress. Find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Practicing mindfulness and joining a support group are some ways to reduce and control stress. If you have anxiety or depression, talk to your care team about strategies to help.
Get good sleep. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other health conditions. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Symptoms for Supraventricular tachycardia :
The main symptom of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a very fast heartbeat that may last for a few minutes to a few days. The heart beats 100 or more times a minute. Usually during SVT, the heart beats 150 to 220 times a minute. The fast heartbeat may come and go suddenly.
Symptoms of supraventricular tachycardia may include:
Pounding or fluttering feelings in the chest, called palpitations.
A pounding sensation in the neck.
Chest pain.
Fainting or almost fainting.
Lightheadedness or dizziness.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating.
Weakness or extreme tiredness.
Some people with SVT do not notice symptoms.
In infants and very young children, symptoms of SVT may be vague. The symptoms can include sweating, poor feeding, a change in skin color and a rapid pulse. If your infant or young child has any of these symptoms, talk with a healthcare professional.
Causes for Supraventricular tachycardia :
Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is caused by faulty signaling in the heart. Electrical signals in the heart control the heartbeat.
In SVT, a change in heart signaling causes the heartbeat to start too early in the heart's upper chambers. When this happens, the heartbeat speeds up. The heart can't fill with blood properly. Symptoms such as lightheadedness or dizziness can occur.
Risk Factors for Supraventricular tachycardia:
Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is the most common type of arrhythmia in infants and children. It also tends to occur more often in women, particularly during pregnancy.
Health conditions or treatments that may increase the risk of supraventricular tachycardia include:
Coronary artery disease, heart valve disease and other heart diseases.
Heart failure.
A heart problem present at birth, also called a congenital heart defect.
Previous heart surgery.
A sleep disorder called obstructive sleep apnea.
Thyroid disease.
Uncontrolled diabetes.
Some medicines, including those used to treat asthma, allergies and colds.
Other things that may increase the risk of SVT include:
Emotional stress.
Too much caffeine.
Excessive alcohol use, which is defined as 14 or more drinks a week for men and seven or more drinks a week for women.
Smoking and nicotine use.
Stimulant drugs, including cocaine and methamphetamine.
Complications for Supraventricular tachycardia:
When the heart beats too fast, it may not send enough blood to the body. As a result, the organs and tissues may not get enough oxygen.
Over time, untreated and frequent attacks of supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) may weaken the heart and lead to heart failure. This is especially true in people who also have other medical conditions.
A severe attack of SVT may cause fainting or a sudden loss of all heart activity, called sudden cardiac arrest.
Preventions for Supraventricular tachycardia
The same lifestyle changes used to manage supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) also may help prevent it. Try these tips.
Follow a heart-healthy lifestyle. Eat a nutritious diet, don't smoke, get regular exercise and manage stress.
Don't use a lot of caffeine. Avoid large amounts of caffeine. For most people with supraventricular tachycardia, moderate amounts of caffeine do not trigger episodes of SVT.
Keep a notebook or diary of when symptoms happen. Include the symptoms, your heart rate and what you were doing at the time of the fast heartbeat. This information can help you learn the things that trigger the very fast heartbeat.
Use medicines carefully. Some medicines, including those bought without a prescription, may contain stimulants that can trigger SVT.
Condition name:Suspicious breast lumps
Overview of Suspicious breast lumps:
A breast lump is a growth of tissue that forms in the breast. Most breast lumps are not irregular or cancerous. But it's key to have your healthcare professional check them promptly.
There are no home remedies available for Suspicious breast lumps in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Suspicious breast lumps :
Breast tissue typically might feel lumpy or ropy. You also may have breast tenderness that comes and goes with your menstrual period.
If you have a health problem that affects your breasts, you might notice changes in how your breasts usually feel. These changes can include:
A round, smooth and firm breast lump.
A lump that feels firm and moves easily under the skin.
A hard breast lump with irregular edges.
An area of skin that has changed color.
Skin dimpling like an orange.
New changes in breast size or shape.
Fluid leaking from the nipple.
Causes for Suspicious breast lumps :
Breast lumps can be caused by:
Breast cysts. These fluid-filled sacs inside the breast are round, smooth and firm. A breast cyst can range in size from a few millimeters to as large as an orange. The tissue around it may be tender. A breast cyst may appear before your period and get smaller, larger or go away afterward. Breast cysts tend to come on quickly around the time of the menstrual cycle.
Fibrocystic breast changes. With these changes, you may feel general fullness in your breasts. Some areas may be lumpy or ropelike. Your breasts may feel tender. It's common to have fibrocystic breast changes related to the menstrual cycle. The symptoms tend to get better after you have your period.
Fibroadenomas. These solid breast tumors aren't cancer. They're smooth, and they move easily under the skin when touched. A fibroadenoma may get smaller over time or it may grow larger. Factors that may be linked with fibroadenoma growth include being pregnant, using hormone therapy such as birth control pills or having a period.
Injury or post-surgery. A serious injury to breast tissue or a complication after breast surgery can create a breast lump. This is called fat necrosis.
Infections. A collection of infected fluid called an abscess in breast tissue also can cause a breast lump. The lump often is linked with breast pain, redness in that area and swelling of the skin.
Intraductal papilloma. This is a skin tag-like growth in a milk duct. It can cause the nipple to leak clear or bloody fluid. It's usually not painful. This growth can be seen on a breast ultrasound of the area under the nipple.
Lipoma. This type of lump can feel soft. It involves fatty breast tissue. It's often harmless.
Breast cancer. A breast lump that's painless, hard, has irregular edges and is different from the breast tissue around it might be breast cancer. The skin covering the lump may thicken, change color or look red. There also may be skin changes such as dimpled or pitted areas that look like the skin of an orange. Your breast size and shape may change. You may notice fluid leaking from the nipple, or the nipple may turn inward. The lymph nodes under the arm or near the collarbone might be swollen.
See your healthcare professional to learn what kinds of tests you might need and which type of breast lump you have.
Risk Factors for Suspicious breast lumps:
Risk factors for breast lumps caused by conditions that are not cancer include the following:
Age. Some conditions that cause breast lumps are more common in the 30s and 40s. These include fibrocystic changes and fibroadenomas.
Menstrual periods. Before or during your period, you may feel a breast lump due to extra fluid in the breasts.
Pregnancy. Your breasts may feel lumpy during pregnancy. That's because the glands that make milk grow in number and get larger.
Premenopause. As you get closer to menopause, hormone changes might make your breasts feel lumpier and tender.
Some risk factors for breast cancer are within your control to change. These include:
Alcohol. The more alcohol you drink, the higher the risk of breast cancer.
Overweight or obesity. The risk of breast cancer rises if you're overweight or obese after menopause.
A lack of exercise. If you don't get physical activity, it may make you more likely to get breast cancer.
Not giving birth. The risk of breast cancer is slightly higher in people who haven't had children or who didn't have children until after age 30.
Not breastfeeding. The risk of breast cancer may be slightly higher in people who don't breastfeed their babies.
Hormonal birth control. Birth control methods that use hormones to prevent pregnancy may slightly raise breast cancer risk. These include birth control pills, shots and intrauterine devices.
Hormone therapy. Long-term use of estrogen combined with progesterone can raise the risk of breast cancer.
Other risk factors for cancerous breast lumps can't be controlled. These include:
Being born female. Women are much more likely than men to get breast cancer.
Aging. The risk of breast cancer rises with age. Most often, tests find breast cancer in people 55 and older.
Gene changes. Some types of breast cancer are caused by genes changes passed from parents to children, also called inherited gene changes. A change in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene is the most common cause of inherited breast cancer.
Family history of breast cancer. You're more likely to get breast cancer if a close relative such as a parent or sibling also had the disease.
Dense breasts. This means your breasts have more glandular and fibrous tissue, and less fatty tissue. People with dense breast tissue have a higher risk of breast cancer than those whose breast density is average.
Early menstrual periods or later menopause. Starting your period at an early age, especially before 12, is linked with a slightly higher breast cancer risk. Going through menopause after 55 also is tied to a slightly higher risk of breast cancer.
Certain breast conditions that aren't cancer. Some benign breast conditions that cause lumps can make breast cancer more likely later on. These conditions include atypical ductal hyperplasia and atypical lobular hyperplasia, which involve too much cell growth in certain breast cells. Another condition called lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) happens when cells grow in glands that make breast milk. LCIS also can raise the risk for breast cancer.
Complications for Suspicious breast lumps:
Some conditions that cause breast lumps may lead to other health concerns, also called complications. The complications depend on the type of breast lump that you have. For example, without treatment, some breast infections can cause pockets of pus to form in the breast.
Other breast conditions that are not cancer still can raise the risk of breast cancer later on. These include conditions that can cause lumps, such as atypical ductal hyperplasia, atypical lobular hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ. If you have a breast condition that raises the risk of cancer, it doesn't mean that you'll definitely get breast cancer. Ask your healthcare professional what the risk means for you and whether you can make lifestyle changes to lower it.
Some breast lumps don't cause complications. For example, small cysts and simple fibroadenomas sometimes go away on their own over time.
Preventions for Suspicious breast lumps
There's no clear way to prevent many breast lumps. Breast lumps that are not cancer often are linked with natural changes in the body, such as hormonal changes over time.
But some risk factors for cancerous breast lumps are within your power to change. Take the following steps to lower your chances of breast cancer:
Drink less alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Eat a balanced diet. Fill your plate with lean proteins, whole grains, and fruits and vegetables. Eat less sugary, salty and processed foods.
Exercise. The American Cancer Society recommends that adults aim to get 150 to 300 minutes of moderate-intensity exercise a week. Or you can try to do 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous activity a week. If you're not active now, ask your healthcare professional to help you get started.
Condition name:Swimmer's itch
Overview of Swimmer's itch:
Swimmer's itch is a rash that can occur after you go swimming or wading outdoors. It's most common after being in freshwater lakes and ponds, but you can get it in saltwater too.
Swimmer's itch is usually caused by a reaction to tiny parasites in the water that burrow into your skin while you're swimming or wading in warm, calm water. These parasites can't survive in people, so they soon die.
Swimmer's itch usually clears on its own within a few days. In the meantime, you can control itching with medicine.
Home Remedies for Swimmer's itch:
These tips might help reduce the itch:
Apply a corticosteroid cream or an anti-itch lotion, such as those that contain calamine.
Take an oral nonprescription antihistamine (Benadryl) or one with loratadine (Alavert, Claritin, others). The latter type causes less sleepiness than does Benadryl.
Avoiding scratching the rash.
Cover affected areas with a clean, damp washcloth.
Soak in a bath sprinkled with Epsom salts, baking soda or an oatmeal-based bath product (Aveeno, others).
Make a paste of baking soda and water, and then apply it to the affected skin.
Symptoms for Swimmer's itch :
Swimmer's itch symptoms include an itchy rash that looks like pimples or blisters. Symptoms may begin within minutes or as long as two days after swimming or wading in contaminated water.
Usually the rash affects skin that's not covered by swimsuits, wetsuits or waders. Your sensitivity to swimmer's itch can increase each time you're exposed to the parasites that cause it.
Causes for Swimmer's itch :
Swimmer's itch is caused by an allergic reaction to parasites that burrow into your skin from warm water. These parasites are found in some animals that live near ponds and lakes, including geese, ducks and muskrats.
The parasites' eggs get into the water through the animals' waste. When the young parasites hatch, they live and grow in a type of snail that lives in shallow water. The snails then release the parasites into the water, where they can infect humans.
Swimmer's itch isn't contagious from person to person.
Risk Factors for Swimmer's itch:
Factors that can increase the risk of swimmer's itch include:
Spending time in water that's infested with certain parasites.
Forgetting to dry off with a towel after getting out of the water.
Being sensitive to the parasites that cause swimmer's itch.
Complications for Swimmer's itch:
Swimmer's itch usually isn't serious, but your skin can become infected if you scratch the rash.
Preventions for Swimmer's itch
Follow these tips to avoid swimmer's itch:
Choose swimming spots carefully. Avoid being in water near the shore where swimmer's itch is a known problem or where signs have been posted warning of the risk. Also avoid being in marshy areas where snails are often found.
Rinse after swimming. Rinse exposed skin with clean water right after leaving the water. Then dry the skin with a towel.
Skip the bread crumbs. Don't feed birds on piers or near swimming areas.
Condition name:Synovial sarcoma
Overview of Synovial sarcoma:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Synovial sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Synovial sarcoma :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Synovial sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Synovial sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Synovial sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Synovial sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Syphilis
Overview of Syphilis:
Syphilis is an infection caused by bacteria. Most often, it spreads through sexual contact. The disease starts as a sore that's often painless and typically appears on the genitals, rectum or mouth. Syphilis spreads from person to person through direct contact with these sores. It also can be passed to a baby during pregnancy and childbirth and sometimes through breastfeeding.
After the infection happens, syphilis bacteria can stay in the body for many years without causing symptoms. But the infection can become active again. Without treatment, syphilis can damage the heart, brain or other organs. It can become life-threatening.
Early syphilis can be cured, sometimes with a single shot of medicine called penicillin. That's why it's key to get a health care checkup as soon as you notice any symptoms of syphilis. All pregnant people should get tested for syphilis at their first prenatal checkup too.
There are no home remedies available for Syphilis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Syphilis :
Syphilis develops in stages. The symptoms vary with each stage. But the stages may overlap. And the symptoms don't always happen in the same order. You may be infected with syphilis bacteria without noticing any symptoms for years.
Causes for Syphilis :
The cause of syphilis is a bacterium called Treponema pallidum. The most common way syphilis spreads is through contact with an infected person's sore during vaginal, oral or anal sex.
The bacteria enter the body through minor cuts or scrapes in the skin or in the moist inner lining of some body parts.
Syphilis is contagious during its primary and secondary stages. Sometimes it's also contagious in the early latent period, which happens within a year of getting infected.
Less often, syphilis can spread by kissing or touching an active sore on the lips, tongue, mouth, breasts or genitals. It also can be passed to babies during pregnancy and childbirth and sometimes through breastfeeding.
Syphilis can't be spread through casual contact with objects that an infected person has touched.
So you can't catch it by using the same toilet, bathtub, clothing, eating utensils, doorknobs, swimming pools or hot tubs.
Once cured, syphilis doesn't come back on its own. But you can become infected again if you have contact with someone's syphilis sore.
Risk Factors for Syphilis:
The risk of catching syphilis is higher if you:
Have unprotected sex.
Have sex with more than one partner.
Live with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS if untreated.
The chances of getting syphilis also are higher for men who have sex with men. The higher risk may be linked, in part, with less access to health care and less use of condoms among this group. Another risk factor for some people in this group includes recent sex with partners found through social media apps.
Complications for Syphilis:
Without treatment, syphilis can lead to damage throughout the body. Syphilis also raises the risk of HIV infection and can cause problems during pregnancy. Treatment can help prevent damage. But it can't repair or reverse damage that's already happened.
Preventions for Syphilis
There is no vaccine for syphilis. To help prevent the spread of syphilis, follow these tips:
Have safe sex or no sex. The only certain way to avoid contact with syphilis bacteria is not to have sex. This is called abstinence. If a person is sexually active, safer sex means a long-term relationship in which you and your partner have sex only with each other, and neither of you is infected. Before you have sex with someone new, you should both get tested for syphilis and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Use a latex condom. Condoms can lower your risk of getting or spreading syphilis. But condoms work only if they cover an infected person's syphilis sores. Other types of birth control do not lower your risk of syphilis.
Be careful with alcohol and stay away from street drugs. Drinking too much alcohol or taking drugs can get in the way of your judgment. Either can lead to unsafe sex.
Do not douche. It can remove some of the healthy bacteria that's usually in the vagina. And that might raise your risk of getting STIs.
Breastfeed with caution. Syphilis can pass from a parent to a baby during breastfeeding if sores are on one or both breasts. This can happen when the baby or pumping equipment touches a sore. To keep that from happening, pump or hand-express breastmilk from the breast with sores. Do so until the sores heal. If your pump touches a sore, get rid of the milk you just pumped.
A medicine called doxycycline may be an option to prevent infection among people who have a higher risk than average of getting syphilis. Higher risk groups include men who have sex with men and transgender women.
Taking doxycycline within 3 days of sexual activity lowers the risk of an infection with the bacteria that cause syphilis. Your healthcare professional can prescribe doxycycline and any testing you need while taking the medicine.
Condition name:Syringomyelia
Overview of Syringomyelia:
Syringomyelia (sih-ring-go-my-E-lee-uh) is the development of a fluid-filled cyst within the spinal cord. The cyst, which is sometimes called a syrinx, can grow larger over time. When it does, it can damage the spinal cord and cause pain, weakness and stiffness.
Syringomyelia has several possible causes. Many cases are associated with a Chiari malformation. This is a condition in which brain tissue pushes into the spinal canal.
Other causes of syringomyelia include spinal cord tumors, spinal cord injuries and damage caused by swelling around the spinal cord.
If syringomyelia doesn't cause problems, monitoring the condition might be all that's necessary. But if the symptoms are bothersome, surgery might be needed.
Home Remedies for Syringomyelia:
The following steps might help reduce the effects of syringomyelia.
Avoid activities that can make symptoms worse
Avoid activities that involve heavy lifting, straining or putting force on the spine.
Consider physical therapy and occupational therapy
A syringomyelia sometimes causes neurological conditions that decrease the ability to move. For instance, it may cause muscle weakness, pain, fatigue or stiffness. Physical and occupational therapy can help to improve muscle function. A physical therapist can create an exercise program that may help reduce these symptoms. An occupational therapist can teach you how to function better in your daily tasks.
Talk to your healthcare team about physical and occupational therapists in your area who have expertise in neurological conditions.
Manage chronic pain
If you have chronic pain from syringomyelia, talk to your healthcare team about treatment options. Many medical centers have doctors who specialize in pain management.
Symptoms for Syringomyelia :
Syringomyelia symptoms usually develop slowly over time. If syringomyelia is caused by brain tissue pushing into the spinal canal, it is called a Chiari malformation. Symptoms generally begin between ages 25 and 40.
In some cases, coughing or straining can trigger symptoms of syringomyelia, although neither causes syringomyelia.
Syringomyelia might affect the back, shoulders, arms or legs. Symptoms can include:
Muscle weakness and muscle wasting.
Loss of reflexes.
Loss of sensitivity to pain and temperature.
Headaches.
Stiffness in the back, shoulders, arms and legs.
Pain in the neck, arms and back.
Scoliosis. This is when the spine curves sideways.
Causes for Syringomyelia :
It's not clear how and why syringomyelia happens. When it develops, the fluid that surrounds, cushions and protects the brain and spinal cord collects within the spinal cord itself. This fluid is called cerebrospinal fluid. If it collects and forms a fluid-filled cyst, it is called a syrinx.
Several conditions and diseases can lead to syringomyelia, including:
Chiari malformation, a condition in which brain tissue pushes into the spinal canal and blocks the regular flow of cerebrospinal fluid.
Meningitis, which is swelling of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord.
Spinal cord tumor, which can interfere with the regular flow of cerebrospinal fluid.
Conditions present at birth, such as a tethered spinal cord. A tethered spinal cord is a condition caused when tissue attached to the spinal cord limits its movement.
Spinal cord injury, which can cause symptoms months or years later.
There are no Risk Factors available for Syringomyelia in the knowledge baseComplications for Syringomyelia:
In some people, syringomyelia can progress and lead to serious complications. Other people have no symptoms.
A syrinx can cause complications if it grows or damages nerves within the spinal cord. Complications include:
Scoliosis. This is when the spine curves sideways.
Chronic pain resulting from damage to the spinal cord.
Motor difficulties that can affect walking. Examples include weakness and stiffness in the leg muscles.
Paralysis.
There are no preventive measures available for Syringomyelia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Systemic mastocytosis
Overview of Systemic mastocytosis:
Systemic mastocytosis (mas-to-sy-TOE-sis) is a rare disorder that results in too many mast cells building up in your body. A mast cell is a type of white blood cell. Mast cells are found in connective tissues throughout your body. Mast cells help your immune system function properly and normally help protect you from disease.
When you have systemic mastocytosis, excess mast cells build up in your skin, bone marrow, digestive tract or other body organs. When triggered, these mast cells release substances that can cause signs and symptoms similar to those of an allergic reaction and, sometimes, severe inflammation that may result in organ damage. Common triggers include alcohol, spicy foods, insect stings and certain medications.
Home Remedies for Systemic mastocytosis:
Systemic mastocytosis can be a complex disease. Understanding your condition is critical to ongoing care and prevention of complications. Ask family or friends if they can help you monitor and care for your condition. Here are some self-care tips:
Identify and avoid your triggers.
Treat allergic reactions. If your doctor recommends epinephrine, always carry a dose with you.
Follow your doctor's recommended care and ongoing monitoring.
Wear a medical alert bracelet or necklace or carry a medical card identifying that you have systemic mastocytosis. Ask your doctor to give you information for health care professionals that you can carry with you in case you need emergency care.
Symptoms for Systemic mastocytosis :
Signs and symptoms of systemic mastocytosis depend on the part of the body affected by excessive mast cells. Too many mast cells can build up in the skin, liver, spleen, bone marrow or intestines. Less commonly, other organs such as the brain, heart or lungs also may be affected.
Signs and symptoms of systemic mastocytosis may include:
Flushing, itching or hives
Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting
Anemia or bleeding disorders
Bone and muscle pain
Enlarged liver, spleen or lymph nodes
Depression, mood changes or problems concentrating
The mast cells are triggered to produce substances that cause inflammation and symptoms. People have different triggers, but the most common ones include:
Alcohol
Skin irritation
Spicy foods
Exercise
Insect stings
Certain medications
When to see a doctor
Talk to your doctor if you have problems with flushing or hives, or if you have concerns about the signs or symptoms listed above.
Causes for Systemic mastocytosis :
Most cases of systemic mastocytosis are caused by a random change (mutation) in the KIT gene. Typically this flaw in the KIT gene is not inherited. Too many mast cells are produced and build up in tissues and body organs, releasing substances such as histamine, leukotrienes and cytokines that cause inflammation and symptoms.
There are no Risk Factors available for Systemic mastocytosis in the knowledge baseComplications for Systemic mastocytosis:
Complications of systemic mastocytosis can include:
Anaphylactic reaction. This severe allergic reaction includes signs and symptoms such as rapid heartbeat, fainting, loss of consciousness and shock. If you have a severe allergic reaction, you may need an injection of epinephrine.
Blood disorders. These can include anemia and poor blood clotting.
Peptic ulcer disease. Chronic stomach irritation can lead to ulcers and bleeding in your digestive tract.
Reduced bone density. Because systemic mastocytosis can affect your bones and bone marrow, you may be at risk of bone problems, such as osteoporosis.
Organ failure. A buildup of mast cells in body organs can cause inflammation and damage to the organ.
There are no preventive measures available for Systemic mastocytosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tachycardia
Overview of Tachycardia:
Tachycardia (tak-ih-KAHR-dee-uh) is the medical term for a heart rate over 100 beats a minute. Many types of irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias, can cause tachycardia.
A fast heart rate isn't always a concern. For instance, the heart rate usually rises during exercise or as a response to stress.
Tachycardia may not cause any symptoms or complications. But sometimes it's a warning of a medical condition that needs attention. Some forms of tachycardia can lead to serious health problems if left untreated. Such problems may include heart failure, stroke or sudden cardiac death.
Treatment for tachycardia may include specific actions or movements, medicine, cardioversion, or surgery to control a rapid heartbeat.
Home Remedies for Tachycardia:
If you have tachycardia or any type of heart disease, it's important to take steps to keep your heart healthy. Steps include lifestyle changes such as eating a heart-healthy diet, getting regular exercise, and not smoking or using tobacco. Your care team also may suggest that you limit or avoid caffeine.
Symptoms for Tachycardia :
Some people with tachycardia have no symptoms. The fast heartbeat may be discovered when a physical exam or heart tests are done for another reason.
In general, tachycardia may cause these symptoms:
Racing, pounding heartbeat or flopping in the chest, called palpitations.
Chest pain.
Fainting.
Lightheadedness.
Rapid pulse.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Tachycardia :
Tachycardia is an increased heart rate for any reason. If a fast heart rate is caused by exercise or stress, it's called sinus tachycardia. Sinus tachycardia is a symptom, not a condition.
Most heart conditions can lead to different forms of tachycardia. Irregular heart rhythms, called arrhythmias, are one cause. An example of an irregular heart rhythm is atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Other things that may lead to tachycardia include:
Fever.
Excessive alcohol use, which is defined as 14 or more drinks a week for a man or seven or more drinks a week for a woman.
Alcohol withdrawal.
Too much caffeine.
High or low blood pressure.
Changes in the level of minerals in the body, called electrolytes. Examples include potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium.
Certain medicines.
Overactive thyroid, called hyperthyroidism.
A low number of red blood cells, called anemia.
Smoking or nicotine use.
Use of illegal stimulants such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
Heart attack.
Sometimes the exact cause of tachycardia is not known.
Risk Factors for Tachycardia:
In general, things that may raise the risk of irregular heart rhythms that commonly cause tachycardia include:
Getting older.
Having a family history of some heart rhythm disorders.
High blood pressure.
Lifestyle changes or treatment of heart conditions may lower the risk of tachycardia.
Complications for Tachycardia:
When the heart beats too fast, it may not pump enough blood to the body. As a result, the organs and tissues may not get enough oxygen.
Complications of tachycardia depend on:
The type of tachycardia.
How fast the heart is beating.
How long the rapid heart rate lasts.
Whether there are other heart conditions.
Potential complications of tachycardia may include:
Blood clots that can cause a heart attack or stroke. Blood-thinning medicine may be used to lower this risk.
Frequent fainting or unconsciousness.
Heart failure.
Sudden cardiac death. This is usually only associated with ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
Preventions for Tachycardia
The best way to prevent tachycardia is to keep the heart healthy. Have regular health checkups. If you have heart disease, follow your treatment plan. Take all medicines as directed.
Try these tips to prevent heart disease and keep the heart healthy:
Don't smoke.
Eat a diet that's low in salt and saturated fat.
Exercise at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Reduce and manage stress.
Control high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes.
Get good sleep. Adults should aim for 7 to 9 hours daily.
Talk to your healthcare team before using any medicines. Some cold and cough medicines have stimulants that may start a rapid heartbeat. Illegal drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine are other stimulants that can cause changes in the heart's rhythm.
Condition name:Tapeworm infection
Overview of Tapeworm infection:
A tapeworm is a parasite that can live and feed in human intestines. This is called a tapeworm infection.
A young and inactive form of the tapeworm is called a larval cyst. It can stay alive in other parts of the body. This is called a larval cyst infection.
A tapeworm in the intestines often causes mild symptoms. Moderate to severe symptoms may include stomach pain and diarrhea. Larval cysts can cause serious disease if they are in a person's brain, liver, lungs, heart or eyes.
Tapeworm infections are treated with anti-parasitic drugs. Treatments for larval cyst infections may include anti-parasitic drugs and surgery to remove the cyst. Other drugs may be used to treat symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Tapeworm infection in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tapeworm infection :
Symptoms depend mostly on where the infection happens in the body.
Causes for Tapeworm infection :
Most tapeworms need two different hosts to complete a life cycle. One host is the place where a parasite grows from egg to larva, called the intermediate host. The other host is where the larva become adults, called the definitive host. For example, beef tapeworms need cattle and humans to go through a complete life cycle.
The beef tapeworm eggs can survive in the environment for months or years. If a cow, the intermediate host, eats grass with these eggs on it, the eggs hatch in its intestines. The young parasite, called a larva, passes into the bloodstream and moves to muscles. It forms a protective shell, called a cyst.
When people, the definitive host, eat undercooked meat from that cow, they can develop a tapeworm infection. The larval cyst develops into an adult tapeworm. The tapeworm attaches to the wall of the intestine where it feeds. It produces eggs that pass in the person's stool.
In this case, the cow is called the intermediate host, and the person is the definitive host.
Risk Factors for Tapeworm infection:
Factors that may put you at greater risk of tapeworm or larval cyst infection include:
Eating raw or undercooked meats. The main risk factor for tapeworm infection is eating raw or undercooked meat and fish. Dried and smoked fish also may have larval cysts in them.
Poor hygiene. Poor handwashing increases the risk of getting and spreading infections. Unwashed fruits and vegetables also can carry tapeworm eggs.
Lack of sanitation and sewage. Lack of sanitation and sewage for human waste increases the risk of livestock getting tapeworm eggs from people. This increases the risk of people eating infected meat.
Lack of clean water. A lack of clean water for drinking, bathing and making food increases the risk of exposure to tapeworm eggs.
High-risk regions. Living in or traveling to regions with high rates of infection is a risk factor.
There are no Complications available for Tapeworm infection in the knowledge basePreventions for Tapeworm infection
These steps can help prevent infections with tapeworms or tapeworm larval cysts.
Wash your hands. Wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds. This is very important after using the toilet, before eating, and before and after handling food.
Wash fruits and vegetables. Rinse fruits and vegetables under running water before eating, peeling or preparing them.
Wash kitchen utensils well. Wash cutting boards, knives and other utensils with soapy water after contact with raw meats or unwashed fruits and vegetables.
Don't eat raw or undercooked meat or fish. Use a meat thermometer to make sure meat is cooked enough to kill larval cysts. Cook whole meats and fish to at least 145 degrees Fahrenheit (63 degrees Celsius) and let rest for at least three minutes. Cook ground meat to at least 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).
Freeze meat. Freezing meat and fish can kill larval cysts. Freeze at minus 4 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 20 degrees Celsius) or below for 7 days.
Treat infected dogs. Treat dogs with tapeworms right away.
Condition name:Tay-Sachs disease
Overview of Tay-Sachs disease:
Tay-Sachs disease is a rare genetic disorder passed from parents to child. It's caused by the absence of an enzyme that helps break down fatty substances. These fatty substances, called gangliosides, build up to toxic levels in the brain and spinal cord and affect the function of the nerve cells.
In the most common and severe form of Tay-Sachs disease, signs and symptoms start to show up at about 3 to 6 months of age. As the disease progresses, development slows and muscles begin to weaken. Over time, this leads to seizures, vision and hearing loss, paralysis, and other major issues. Children with this form of Tay-Sachs disease typically live only a few years.
Less commonly, some children have the juvenile form of Tay-Sachs disease and may live into their teen years. Rarely, some adults have a late-onset form of Tay-Sachs disease which is often less severe than forms that begin in childhood.
If you have a family history of Tay-Sachs disease or if you're a member of a high-risk group and plan to have children, health care providers strongly recommend genetic testing and genetic counseling.
There are no home remedies available for Tay-Sachs disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tay-Sachs disease :
There are three forms of Tay-Sachs disease: infantile, juvenile and late onset/adult.
Causes for Tay-Sachs disease :
Tay-Sachs disease is a genetic disorder that is passed from parents to their children. It occurs when a child inherits a flaw (mutation) in the HEXA gene from both parents.
The genetic change that causes Tay-Sachs disease results in a deficiency of the enzyme beta-hexosaminidase A. This enzyme is required to break down the fatty substance GM2 ganglioside. The buildup of fatty substances damages nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. Severity and age of onset of the disease relates to how much enzyme is still produced.
Risk Factors for Tay-Sachs disease:
Because the gene change that causes Tay-Sachs disease is found more often in certain populations, risk factors for Tay-Sachs disease include having ancestors from:
Eastern and Central European Jewish communities (Ashkenazi Jews)
Certain French Canadian communities in Quebec
Cajun community of Louisiana
Old Order Amish community in Pennsylvania
A blood test can be used to identify carriers of the HEXA gene change that causes Tay-Sachs disease. Genetic counseling is recommended following testing.
There are no Complications available for Tay-Sachs disease in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Tay-Sachs disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Teen depression
Overview of Teen depression:
Teen depression is a serious mental health problem that causes a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest in activities. It affects how your teenager thinks, feels and behaves, and it can cause emotional, functional and physical problems. Although depression can occur at any time in life, symptoms may be different between teens and adults.
Issues such as peer pressure, academic expectations and changing bodies can bring a lot of ups and downs for teens. But for some teens, the lows are more than just temporary feelings — they're a symptom of depression.
Teen depression isn't a weakness or something that can be overcome with willpower — it can have serious consequences and requires long-term treatment. For most teens, depression symptoms ease with treatment such as medication and psychological counseling.
Home Remedies for Teen depression:
You are your teenager's best advocate to help him or her succeed. In addition to professional treatment, here are some steps you and your teen can take that may help:
Stick to the treatment plan. Make sure your teen attends appointments, even if he or she doesn't feel like going. Even if your teen is feeling well, make sure he or she continues to take medications as prescribed. If your teen stops taking medications, depression symptoms may come back. And quitting suddenly may cause withdrawal-like symptoms.
Learn about depression. Education can empower your teen and motivate him or her to stick to a treatment plan. It can also benefit you and other loved ones to learn about depression and understand that it's a treatable condition.
Encourage communication with your teen. Talk to your teen about the changes you're observing and emphasize your unconditional support. Create an environment where your teen can share concerns while you listen.
Pay attention to warning signs. Work with your teen's doctor or therapist to learn what might trigger depression symptoms. Make a plan so that you and your teen know what to do if symptoms get worse. Ask family members or friends to help watch for warning signs.
Help your teen adopt healthy habits. Keep healthy foods in your home, keep unhealthy foods out, and set regular mealtimes. Encourage routine exercise, noting that even light physical activity can help reduce depression symptoms. Set a time for lights out at bedtime with no use of electronic devices in bed, which can help promote quality and quantity of sleep. If your teen is having problems with sleep, ask the doctor for advice.
Help your teen avoid alcohol and other drugs. Your teen may feel as if alcohol, marijuana or other drugs lessen depression symptoms, but in the long run they worsen symptoms and make depression harder to treat. Talk with the doctor or therapist if your teen needs help to deal with alcohol or drug use.
Eliminate or limit access to items your teen could use for self-harm. This can include removing or securing guns, and removing sharp items, alcohol or risky medications in your home if you live with a teen who has depression.
Symptoms for Teen depression :
Teen depression signs and symptoms include a change from the teenager's previous attitude and behavior that can cause significant distress and problems at school or home, in social activities, or in other areas of life.
Depression symptoms can vary in severity, but changes in your teen's emotions and behavior may include the examples below.
Causes for Teen depression :
It's not known exactly what causes depression, but a variety of issues may be involved. These include:
Brain chemistry. Neurotransmitters are naturally occurring brain chemicals that carry signals to other parts of your brain and body. When these chemicals are abnormal or impaired, the function of nerve receptors and nerve systems changes, leading to depression.
Hormones. Changes in the body's balance of hormones may be involved in causing or triggering depression.
Inherited traits. Depression is more common in people whose blood relatives — such as a parent or grandparent — also have the condition.
Early childhood trauma. Traumatic events during childhood, such as physical or emotional abuse, or loss of a parent, may cause changes in the brain that increase the risk of depression.
Learned patterns of negative thinking. Teen depression may be linked to learning to feel helpless — rather than learning to feel capable of finding solutions for life's challenges.
Risk Factors for Teen depression:
Many factors increase the risk of developing or triggering teen depression, including:
Having issues that negatively impact self-esteem, such as obesity, peer problems, long-term bullying or academic problems
Having been the victim or witness of violence, such as physical or sexual abuse
Having other mental health conditions, such as bipolar disorder, an anxiety disorder, a personality disorder, anorexia or bulimia
Having a learning disability or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Having ongoing pain or a chronic physical illness such as cancer, diabetes or asthma
Having certain personality traits, such as low self-esteem or being overly dependent, self-critical or pessimistic
Abusing alcohol, nicotine or other drugs
Being gay, lesbian, bisexual or transgender in an unsupportive environment
Family history and issues with family or others may also increase your teenager's risk of depression, such as:
Having a parent, grandparent or other blood relative with depression, bipolar disorder or alcohol use problems
Having a family member who died by suicide
Having a family with major communication and relationship problems
Having experienced recent stressful life events, such as parental divorce, parental military service or the death of a loved one
Complications for Teen depression:
Untreated depression can result in emotional, behavioral and health problems that affect every area of your teenager's life. Complications related to teen depression may include, for example:
Alcohol and drug misuse
Academic problems
Family conflicts and relationship difficulties
Suicide attempts or suicide
Preventions for Teen depression
There's no sure way to prevent depression. However, these strategies may help. Encourage your teenager to:
Take steps to control stress, increase resilience and boost self-esteem to help handle issues when they arise
Practice self-care, for example by creating a healthy sleep routine and using electronics responsibly and in moderation
Reach out for friendship and social support, especially in times of crisis
Get treatment at the earliest sign of a problem to help prevent depression from worsening
Maintain ongoing treatment, if recommended, even after symptoms let up, to help prevent a relapse of depression symptoms
Condition name:Temporal lobe seizure
Overview of Temporal lobe seizure:
Temporal lobe seizures begin in the temporal lobes of the brain. These areas process emotions and are important for short-term memory. Symptoms of a temporal lobe seizure may be related to these functions. Some people have odd feelings during the seizure, such as joy, deja vu or fear.
Temporal lobe seizures are sometimes called focal seizures with impaired awareness. Some people remain aware of what's happening during the seizure. But if the seizure is more intense, the person might look awake but won't respond to what's around them. The person's lips and hands may make motions over and over.
The cause of temporal lobe seizures is often not known. But it may stem from a scar in the temporal lobe. Temporal lobe seizures are treated with medicine. For some people who don't respond to medicine, surgery may be an option.
Home Remedies for Temporal lobe seizure:
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to your health care provider. If you feel your medicine needs to be changed, discuss it with your provider.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This helps emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Ask your health care provider about driving restrictions. Someone with a seizure disorder has to be seizure-free for a certain length of time before being able to drive. The amount of time varies by state.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury. But injury is possible if you have recurrent seizures. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off the chair. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers.
To help someone during a seizure:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight neckwear.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects, if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical personnel arrive.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Stay calm.
Symptoms for Temporal lobe seizure :
An unusual sensation known as an aura may happen before a temporal lobe seizure. An aura acts as a warning. Not everyone who has temporal lobe seizures has auras. And not everyone who has auras remembers them.
The aura is the first part of a focal seizure before a loss of consciousness. Examples of auras include:
A sudden sense of fear or joy.
A feeling that what's happening has happened before, known as deja vu.
A sudden or strange odor or taste.
A rising sensation in the belly similar to being on a roller coaster.
Sometimes temporal lobe seizures impair your ability to respond to others. This type of temporal lobe seizure usually lasts 30 seconds to 2 minutes.
Symptoms of a temporal lobe seizure include:
Not being aware of the people and things around you.
Staring.
Lip smacking.
Repeated swallowing or chewing.
Finger movements, such as picking motions.
After a temporal lobe seizure, you may have:
A period of confusion and trouble speaking.
Inability to recall what occurred during the seizure.
Not being aware of having had a seizure.
Extreme sleepiness.
In extreme cases, what starts as a temporal lobe seizure evolves into a generalized tonic-clonic seizure. This type of seizure causes shaking, known as convulsions, and loss of consciousness. It also is called a grand mal seizure.
Causes for Temporal lobe seizure :
Often, the cause of temporal lobe seizures is not known. But they can be a result of a number of factors, including:
Traumatic brain injury.
Infections such as encephalitis or meningitis. Or a history of such infections.
A process that causes scarring in a part of the temporal lobe called the hippocampus. This is known as gliosis.
Blood vessel malformations in the brain.
Stroke.
Brain tumors.
Genetic syndromes.
During waking and sleeping, your brain cells produce varying electrical activity. If there's a burst of electrical activity in many brain cells, a seizure may occur.
If this happens in just one area of the brain, the result is a focal seizure. A temporal lobe seizure is a focal seizure that originates in one of the temporal lobes.
There are no Risk Factors available for Temporal lobe seizure in the knowledge baseComplications for Temporal lobe seizure:
Over time, repeated temporal lobe seizures can cause the part of the brain that's responsible for learning and memory to shrink. This area of the brain is called the hippocampus. The loss of brain cells in the hippocampus may cause memory problems.
There are no preventive measures available for Temporal lobe seizure in the knowledge baseCondition name:TEN
Overview of TEN:
Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) is a rare, life-threatening skin reaction, usually caused by a medication. It's a severe form of Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS). In people with SJS, TEN is diagnosed when more than 30% of the skin surface is affected and the moist linings of the body (mucous membranes) have extensive damage.
TEN is a life-threatening condition that affects people of all ages. TEN is usually treated in a hospital. While the skin heals, supportive care includes controlling pain, caring for wounds and making sure you're getting enough fluids. Recovery can take weeks to months.
If your condition was caused by a medication, you'll need to permanently avoid that drug and those related to it.
There are no home remedies available for TEN in the knowledge baseSymptoms for TEN :
Toxic epidermal necrolysis signs and symptoms include:
Widespread skin pain
A spreading rash covering more than 30% of the body
Blisters and large areas of peeling skin
Sores, swelling and crusting on the mucous membranes, including the mouth, eyes and vagina
Causes for TEN :
SJS/TEN is usually caused by a skin reaction to medicine. The symptoms are likely to start showing up one to four weeks after you start taking a new drug.
The most common drug triggers of SJS/TEN include antibiotics, epilepsy drugs, sulfa drugs and allopurinol (Aloprim, Zyloprim).
Risk Factors for TEN:
Factors that increase your risk of SJS/TEN include:
HIV infection. Among people with HIV, the incidence of SJS/TEN is about 100 times greater than that among the general population.
A weakened immune system. The immune system can be affected by an organ transplant, HIV/AIDS and autoimmune diseases.
Cancer. People with cancer, especially blood cancers (hematologic malignancies), are at increased risk of SJS/TEN.
A history of SJS/TEN. If you've had a medication-related form of this condition, you are at risk of a recurrence if you use that drug again.
A family history of SJS/TEN. If a first-degree relative, such as a parent or sibling, has had SJS/TEN, you may be more susceptible to developing it too.
Genetic factors. Having certain genetic variations puts you at increased risk of SJS/TEN, especially if you're also taking drugs for seizures, gout or mental illness.
Complications for TEN:
People at highest risk of TEN complications are those over age 70 and those who have liver cirrhosis or spreading (metastatic) cancer. Complications of TEN include:
Blood infection (sepsis). Sepsis occurs when bacteria from an infection enter your bloodstream and spread throughout your body. Sepsis is a rapidly progressing, life-threatening condition that can cause shock and organ failure.
Lung involvement. This can cause coughing, difficulty breathing and, with severe disease, acute respiratory failure.
Visual impairment. TEN can cause eye problems, such as dry eye, ingrown eyelashes, corneal scarring and, rarely, blindness.
Permanent skin damage. After recovering from TEN, your skin may have bumps, scars and discoloration. Lasting skin problems might cause your hair to fall out, and your fingernails and toenails might not grow normally.
Vaginal sores. In women, TEN can cause sores in the tissues lining the vagina, leading to pain or, if left untreated, vaginal fusion.
Emotional distress. This condition causes distress and can have long-term psychological impact.
Preventions for TEN
To prevent another episode of TEN, learn whether it was caused by a medicine. If so, never take that medicine or anything similar again. A recurrence could be worse and life-threatening. Also tell any future health care providers about your history of TEN, and wear a medic alert bracelet or necklace with information about your condition. Or carry an allergy passport.
Condition name:Tendinitis
Overview of Tendinitis:
Tendinitis is inflammation of the thick fibrous cords that attach muscle to bone. These cords are called tendons. The condition causes pain and tenderness just outside a joint.
Tendinitis can occur in any tendon. But it's most common around shoulders, elbows, wrists, knees and heels.
Most tendinitis can be treated with rest, physical therapy and medicine to reduce pain. Long-lasting tendon inflammation can cause a tendon to tear. A torn tendon might need surgery.
Home Remedies for Tendinitis:
To treat tendinitis at home, use rest, ice, compression and elevation. This treatment can help speed recovery and help prevent more problems.
Rest. Avoid doing things that increase the pain or swelling. Don't try to work or play through the pain. Healing requires rest, but not complete bed rest. You can do other activities and exercises that don't stress the injured tendon. Swimming and water exercise may be good options.
Ice. To decrease pain, muscle spasm and swelling, apply ice to the injured area for up to 20 minutes several times a day. Ice packs, ice massage or slush baths with ice and water all can help. For an ice massage, freeze a paper cup full of water so that you can hold the cup while applying the ice directly to the skin.
Compression. Because swelling can cause loss of motion in an injured joint, wrap the area tightly until the swelling stops. Use wraps or elastic bandages.
Elevation. If tendinitis affects your knee, raise the hurt leg above the level of your heart to reduce swelling.
Although rest is a key to treating tendinitis, not moving joints can cause them to become stiff. After a few days of resting the injured area, gently move it through its full range of motion to keep your joints flexible.
More Information
Tendinitis pain: Should I apply ice or heat?
Symptoms for Tendinitis :
Symptoms of tendinitis tend to occur where a tendon attaches to a bone. Symptoms often include:
Pain, often described as a dull ache, especially when moving the hurt limb or joint
Tenderness
Mild swelling
Causes for Tendinitis :
Tendinitis can be caused by a sudden injury. But repeating the same movement over time is a much more likely cause. Most people develop tendinitis because their jobs or hobbies involve motions that they repeat, over and over. This puts stress on tendons.
Moving correctly is especially important when having to repeat movements for sports or a job. Moving incorrectly can overload the tendon and lead to tendinitis.
Risk Factors for Tendinitis:
Risk factors for developing tendinitis include age, having jobs that involve doing the same motion over and over, doing physical activities with poor form, and taking certain medicines.
Complications for Tendinitis:
Without treatment, tendinitis can increase the risk of a tendon breaking down or tearing. A completely torn tendon might need surgery.
Preventions for Tendinitis
To reduce the chance of developing tendinitis, follow these suggestions:
Ease up. Avoid activities that place too much stress on your tendons, especially for long periods. If you have pain during an exercise, stop and rest.
Mix it up. If one exercise or activity causes you pain, try something else. Cross-training can help you mix high-impact exercise, such as running, with lower impact exercise, such as biking or swimming.
Improve the way you move. If how you do an activity or exercise is flawed, you could be setting yourself up for problems with your tendons. Consider taking lessons or getting professional instructions when starting a new sport or using exercise equipment.
Stretch. After exercise, move your joints through full range of motion. The best time to stretch is after exercise, when your muscles are warmed up.
Move right in the workplace. Make sure your chair, keyboard and desktop are positioned correctly for your height, arm length and the tasks you do. This will help protect your joints and tendons from stress.
Prepare your muscles to play. Strengthening muscles used in your activity or sport can help them bear the load better.
Condition name:Tennis elbow
Overview of Tennis elbow:
Tennis elbow, also known as lateral epicondylitis, is a condition that can result from overuse of the muscles and tendons in the elbow. Tennis elbow is often linked to repeated motions of the wrist and arm.
Despite its name, most people who get tennis elbow don't play tennis. Some people have jobs that involve repeated movements that can lead to tennis elbow. These include plumbers, painters, carpenters and butchers. However, often tennis elbow has no clear cause.
The pain of tennis elbow occurs mainly where the tough, cord-like tissues of the forearm muscles attach to a bony bump on the outside of the elbow. The tissues are known as tendons. Pain can spread into the forearm and wrist.
Rest, pain medicines and physical therapy often help relieve tennis elbow. People for whom these treatments don't help or who have symptoms that get in the way of daily living might have a procedure, such as a shot or surgery.
Home Remedies for Tennis elbow:
The following self-care measures might relieve tennis elbow:
Rest. Do not do activities that aggravate elbow pain.
Pain relievers. Try pain relievers such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or naproxen sodium (Aleve).
Ice. Apply ice or a cold pack for 15 minutes 3 to 4 times a day.
Symptoms for Tennis elbow :
The pain of tennis elbow can travel from the outside of the elbow into the forearm and wrist. Pain and weakness can make it hard to:
Shake hands or grip an object.
Turn a doorknob.
Hold a coffee cup.
Causes for Tennis elbow :
Tennis elbow is often linked to overuse and muscle strain. But the cause is not well understood. Sometimes, repeated tensing of the forearm muscles that are used to straighten and raise the hand and wrist triggers the symptoms. This can cause a breakdown of the fibers in the tendon that attaches the forearm muscles to the bony bump at the outside of the elbow.
Activities that can cause tennis elbow symptoms include:
Playing racket sports, especially using backhand, with poor form.
Using plumbing tools.
Painting.
Driving screws.
Cutting up foods for cooking, particularly meat.
Using a computer mouse a lot.
Less often, an injury or a condition that affects the body's connective tissues causes tennis elbow. Often, the cause isn't known.
Risk Factors for Tennis elbow:
Factors that can increase the risk of tennis elbow include:
Age. Tennis elbow affects people of all ages. But it's most common in adults between the ages of 30 and 60.
Work. People who have jobs that involve repeating motions of the wrist and arm are more likely to develop tennis elbow. These include plumbers, painters, carpenters, butchers and cooks.
Certain sports. Playing racket sports increases the risk of tennis elbow. Not having good form or using poor equipment increases the risk even more. Playing more than two hours a day also increases the risk.
Other factors that can increase the risk include smoking, being obese and certain medicines.
There are no Complications available for Tennis elbow in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Tennis elbow in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tension headache
Overview of Tension headache:
A tension-type headache causes mild to moderate pain that's often described as feeling like a tight band around the head. A tension-type headache is the most common type of headache, yet its causes aren't well understood.
Treatments are available. Managing a tension-type headache is often a balance between practicing healthy habits, finding effective nonmedicine treatments and using medicines appropriately.
Home Remedies for Tension headache:
Rest, ice packs or a long, hot shower may be all you need to relieve a tension-type headache. If you experience chronic tension-type headaches, these strategies can help you reduce how many you have or how painful they are:
Manage your stress level. One way to help reduce stress is by planning ahead and organizing your day. Another way is to allow more time to relax.
Go hot or cold. Applying heat or ice â€” whichever you prefer â€” to sore muscles may ease a tension-type headache. For heat, use a heating pad set on low, a hot-water bottle, a warm compress or a hot towel. A hot bath or shower also may help. For cold, wrap ice, an ice pack or frozen vegetables in a cloth to protect your skin.
Perfect your posture. Good posture can help keep your muscles from tensing. When standing, hold your shoulders back and your head level. Pull in your abdomen and buttocks. When sitting, make sure your thighs are parallel to the ground and your head isn't slumped forward.
More Information
Headaches and stress
Relieving tension-type headaches
Symptoms for Tension headache :
Symptoms of a tension-type headache include:
Dull, aching head pain.
Feeling of tightness or pressure across the forehead or on the sides and back of the head.
Tenderness in the scalp, neck and shoulder muscles.
Tension-type headaches are divided into two main categories — episodic and chronic.
Causes for Tension headache :
The cause of tension-type headaches is not known. In the past, experts thought tension-type headaches were caused by muscle contractions in the face, neck and scalp. They thought the muscle contractions were a result of emotions, tension or stress. But research suggests that muscle contraction isn't the cause.
The most common theory is that people who have tension-type headaches have increased sensitivity to pain. Muscle tenderness, a common symptom of tension-type headaches, may result from this sensitized pain system.
Risk Factors for Tension headache:
Most people experience a tension-type headache at some point in their lives. However, some research has found that women are more likely to have frequent episodic tension-type headaches and chronic tension-type headaches. Age also might play a factor. One study found that episodic tension-type headaches were more likely to affect people in their 40s.
Complications for Tension headache:
Because tension-type headaches are so common, they can have an effect on job productivity and quality of life, particularly if they're chronic. Frequent headache pain may make it hard to attend activities. You might need to stay home from work. If you do go to your job, it may be hard to function as usual.
Preventions for Tension headache
Regular exercise can help prevent tension-type headaches. Other techniques also can help, such as:
Biofeedback training. This training teaches you to control certain body responses that help reduce pain. A device monitors and gives you feedback on your muscle tension, heart rate and blood pressure. You then learn how to reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate and breathing.
Cognitive behavioral therapy. This type of talk therapy may help you learn to manage stress. Doing this may help you have fewer or less painful headaches.
Other relaxation techniques. Anything that helps you relax may help your headaches. This can include deep breathing, yoga, meditation and progressive muscle relaxation. You can learn these methods in classes or at home using books or apps.
Using medicines along with stress management may be more effective than any one treatment in reducing your tension-type headaches.
Also, living a healthy lifestyle may help prevent headaches:
Get enough, but not too much, sleep.
Don't smoke.
Stay physically active.
Eat regular, balanced meals.
Drink plenty of water.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and sugar.
Condition name:Testicular cancer
Overview of Testicular cancer:
Testicular cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the testicles. The testicles, which are also called testes, are in the scrotum. The scrotum is a loose bag of skin underneath the penis. The testicles make sperm and the hormone testosterone.
Testicular cancer isn't a common type of cancer. It can happen at any age, but it happens most often between the ages of 15 and 45.
The first sign of testicular cancer often is a bump or lump on a testicle. The cancer cells can grow quickly. They often spread outside the testicle to other parts of the body.
Testicular cancer is highly treatable, even when it spreads to other parts of the body. Treatments depend on the type of testicular cancer that you have and how far it has spread. Common treatments include surgery and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Testicular cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Testicular cancer :
Signs and symptoms of testicular cancer include:
A lump or swelling in either testicle
A feeling of heaviness in the scrotum
A dull ache in the lower belly or groin
Sudden swelling in the scrotum
Pain or discomfort in a testicle or the scrotum
Enlargement or tenderness of the breast tissue
Back pain
Usually testicular cancer only happens in one testicle.
Causes for Testicular cancer :
It's not clear what causes most testicular cancers.
Testicular cancer starts when something causes changes to the DNA of testicle cells. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow and multiply quickly. The cancer cells go on living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This causes a lot of extra cells in the testicle that can form a mass called a tumor.
In time, the tumor can grow beyond the testicle. Some cells might break away and spread to other parts of the body. Testicular cancer most often spreads to the lymph nodes, liver and lungs. When testicular cancer spreads, it's called metastatic testicular cancer.
Nearly all testicular cancers begin in the germ cells. The germ cells in the testicle make sperm. It's not clear what causes DNA changes in the germ cells.
Risk Factors for Testicular cancer:
Factors that may increase your risk of testicular cancer include:
Having an undescended testicle, which is called cryptorchidism. The testes form in the belly during fetal development. They typically descend into the scrotum before birth. If you have a testicle that never descended, your risk of testicular cancer is higher. The risk is increased even if you've had surgery to move the testicle to the scrotum.
Having a family history of testicular cancer. If testicular cancer runs in your family, you might have an increased risk.
Being a young adult. Testicular cancer can happen at any age. But it's most common in teens and young adults between 15 and 45.
Being white. Testicular cancer is most common in white people.
There are no Complications available for Testicular cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Testicular cancer
There's no way to prevent testicular cancer. If you get testicular cancer, there's nothing you could have done to prevent it.
Condition name:Tetanus
Overview of Tetanus:
Tetanus is a serious disease of the nervous system caused by a toxin-producing bacterium. The disease causes muscle contractions, particularly of your jaw and neck muscles. Tetanus is commonly known as lockjaw.
Severe complications of tetanus can be life-threatening. There's no cure for tetanus. Treatment focuses on managing symptoms and complications until the effects of the tetanus toxin resolve.
Because of the widespread use of vaccines, cases of tetanus are rare in the United States and other parts of the developed world. The disease remains a threat to people who aren't up to date on their vaccinations. It's more common in developing countries.
Home Remedies for Tetanus:
Proper wound care is important for any cut or wound. Seek medical care if you have a puncture wound, a deep cut, an animal bite, a foreign object in your wound, or a wound contaminated with dirt, soil, feces, rust or saliva.
If you're unsure when you last had a tetanus vaccine, seek medical care. Contaminated or more-serious wounds require a vaccination booster if it's been five or more years since your last tetanus shot.
If you have a minor wound, these steps will help prevent infections:
Control bleeding. Apply direct pressure to stop bleeding.
Clean the wound. After the bleeding stops, rinse the wound with a saline solution, bottled water or clear running water.
Use antibiotics. Apply a thin layer of an antibiotic cream or ointment to discourage bacterial growth and infection.
Cover the wound. Bandages can keep the wound clean and keep harmful bacteria out. Keep the wound covered until a scab forms. If you cannot clean the wound thoroughly, do not cover it and instead seek medical care.
Change the dressing. Rinse the wound, apply antibiotic ointment, and replace the bandage at least once a day or whenever the dressing becomes wet or dirty.
Manage adverse reactions. If the antibiotic causes a rash, stop using it. If you're allergic to the adhesive used in most bandages, switch to adhesive-free dressings or sterile gauze and paper tape.
By Mayo Clinic Staff
Symptoms for Tetanus :
The average time from infection to appearance of signs and symptoms (incubation period) is 10 days. The incubation period can range from 3 to 21 days.
The most common type of tetanus is called generalized tetanus. Signs and symptoms begin gradually and then progressively worsen over two weeks. They usually start at the jaw and progress downward on the body.
Signs and symptoms of generalized tetanus include:
Painful muscle spasms and stiff, immovable muscles (muscle rigidity) in your jaw
Tension of muscles around your lips, sometimes producing a persistent grin
Painful spasms and rigidity in your neck muscles
Difficulty swallowing
Rigid abdominal muscles
Progression of tetanus results in repeated painful, seizure-like spasms that last for several minutes (generalized spasms). Usually, the neck and back arch, the legs become rigid, the arms are drawn up to the body, and the fists are clenched. Muscle rigidity in the neck and abdomen may cause breathing difficulties.
These severe spasms may be triggered by minor events that stimulate the senses — a loud sound, a physical touch, a draft or light.
As the disease progresses, other signs and symptoms may include:
High blood pressure
Low blood pressure
Rapid heart rate
Fever
Extreme sweating
Causes for Tetanus :
The bacterium that causes tetanus is called Clostridium tetani. The bacterium can survive in a dormant state in soil and animal feces. It's essentially shut down until it discovers a place to thrive.
When the dormant bacteria enter a wound — a condition good for growth — the cells are "awakened." As they are growing and dividing, they release a toxin called tetanospasmin. The toxin impairs the nerves in the body that control muscles.
Risk Factors for Tetanus:
The greatest risk factor for tetanus infection is not being vaccinated or not keeping up with the 10-year booster shots.
Other factors that increase the risk of tetanus infection are:
Cuts or wounds exposed to soil or manure
A foreign body in a wound, such as a nail or splinter
A history of immune-suppressing medical conditions
Infected skin lesions in people living with diabetes
An infected umbilical cord when a mother isn't fully vaccinated
Shared and unsanitary needles for illegal drug use
Complications for Tetanus:
Complications of tetanus infection may include:
Breathing problems. Life-threatening breathing problems can occur from tightening of the vocal cords and muscle rigidity in the neck and abdomen, especially during a generalized spasm.
Blockage of a lung artery (pulmonary embolism). A blood clot that has traveled from elsewhere in your body can block the main artery of the lung or one of its branches.
Pneumonia. A lung infection caused by accidentally inhaling something into the lungs (aspiration pneumonia) may be a complication of generalized spasms.
Broken bones. Generalized spasms may cause fractures of the spine or other bones.
Death. Death from tetanus is often caused by a blocked airway during spasms or damage to the nerves that regulate breathing, heart rate or other organ functions.
Preventions for Tetanus
You can prevent tetanus by being vaccinated.
Condition name:Tetralogy of Fallot
Overview of Tetralogy of Fallot:
Tetralogy of Fallot (teh-TRAL-uh-jee of fuh-LOW) is a rare heart condition that is present at birth. That means it's a congenital heart defect. A baby born with the condition has four different heart problems.
These heart problems affect the structure of the heart. The condition causes altered blood flow through the heart and to the rest of the body. Babies with tetralogy of Fallot often have blue or gray skin color due to low oxygen levels.
Tetralogy of Fallot is usually diagnosed during pregnancy or soon after a baby is born. If the heart changes and symptoms are mild, tetralogy of Fallot may not be noticed or diagnosed until adulthood.
People who are diagnosed with tetralogy of Fallot need surgery to fix the heart. They will need regular health checkups for life.
Home Remedies for Tetralogy of Fallot:
After treatment for tetralogy of Fallot, your healthcare team may suggest some steps to keep the heart healthy. These may include:
Sports and activity restrictions. Some people born with a serious heart problem such as tetralogy of Fallot may need to limit exercise or sports activities. But many others can participate in such activities. Ask your or your child's healthcare team which sports and types of activities are safe.
Antibiotics to prevent heart infection. Sometimes, severe heart problems can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures, especially for people who have a mechanical heart valve. Ask your child's healthcare professional if preventive antibiotics are necessary for your child. Good oral care and regular dental checkups also are important ways to help prevent infection.
Symptoms for Tetralogy of Fallot :
Tetralogy of Fallot symptoms depend on how much blood flow is blocked from leaving the heart to go to the lungs. Symptoms may include:
Blue or gray skin color.
Shortness of breath and rapid breathing, especially during feeding or exercise.
Trouble gaining weight.
Getting tired easily during play or exercise.
Irritability.
Crying for long periods of time.
Fainting.
Causes for Tetralogy of Fallot :
Tetralogy of Fallot occurs as the baby's heart grows during pregnancy. Usually, the cause is unknown.
Tetralogy of Fallot includes four problems with heart structure:
Narrowing of the valve between the heart and the lungs, called pulmonary valve stenosis. This condition reduces blood flow from the heart to the lungs. The narrowing may just involve the valve. Or it could happen in more than one place along the pathway between the heart and lungs. Sometimes the valve isn't formed. Instead, a solid sheet of tissue blocks blood flow from the right side of the heart. This is called pulmonary atresia.
A hole between the bottom heart chambers, called a ventricular septal defect. A ventricular septal defect changes how blood flows through the heart and lungs. Oxygen-poor blood in the lower right chamber mixes with oxygen-rich blood in the lower left chamber. The heart has to work harder to pump blood through the body. The problem may weaken the heart over time.
Shifting of the body's main artery. The body's main artery is called the aorta. It's usually attached to the left lower heart chamber. In tetralogy of Fallot, the aorta is in the wrong place. It's shifted to the right and sits directly above the hole in the heart wall. This changes how blood flows from the aorta to the lungs.
Thickening of the right lower chamber of the heart, called right ventricular hypertrophy. When the heart has to work too hard, the wall of the right lower heart chamber gets thick. Over time, this may cause the heart to become weak and eventually fail.
Some people with tetralogy of Fallot have other problems that affect the aorta or heart arteries. There also may be a hole between the heart's upper chambers, called atrial septal defect.
Risk Factors for Tetralogy of Fallot:
The exact cause of tetralogy of Fallot is unknown. Some things may increase the risk of a baby being born with tetralogy of Fallot. Risk factors include:
Family history.
Having a virus during pregnancy. This includes rubella, also known as German measles.
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy.
Eating poorly during pregnancy.
Smoking during pregnancy.
Mother's age older than 35.
Down syndrome or DiGeorge syndrome in the baby.
Complications for Tetralogy of Fallot:
Untreated tetralogy of Fallot usually leads to life-threatening complications. The complications may cause disability or death by early adulthood.
A possible complication of tetralogy of Fallot is infection of the inner lining of the heart or heart valves. This is called infective endocarditis. Sometimes antibiotics are given before dental work to prevent this type of infection. Ask your healthcare team if preventive antibiotics are right for you or your baby.
Complications also are possible after surgery to repair tetralogy of Fallot. But most people do well after such surgery. When complications occur, they may include:
Backward flow of blood through a heart valve.
Irregular heartbeats.
A hole in the heart that doesn't go away after surgery.
Changes in the size of the heart chambers.
Swelling of part of the aorta, called aortic root dilation.
Sudden cardiac death.
Another procedure or surgery may be needed to fix these complications.
Preventions for Tetralogy of Fallot
Because the exact cause of most congenital heart defects is unknown, it may not be possible to prevent these conditions. If you have a high risk of giving birth to a child with a congenital heart defect, genetic testing and screening may be done during pregnancy.
There are some steps you can take to help reduce your child's overall risk of birth defects, such as:
Get proper prenatal care. Regular checkups with a healthcare team during pregnancy can help keep mom and baby healthy.
Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to reduce birth defects in the brain and spinal cord. It may help reduce the risk of heart defects as well.
Don't drink or smoke. These lifestyle habits can harm a baby's health. Also avoid secondhand smoke.
Get a rubella (German measles) vaccine. A rubella infection during pregnancy may affect a baby's heart development. Get vaccinated before trying to get pregnant.
Control blood sugar. If you have diabetes, good control of your blood sugar can reduce the risk of congenital heart defects.
Manage chronic health conditions. If you have other health conditions, including phenylketonuria, talk to your healthcare team about the best way to treat and manage them.
Avoid harmful substances. During pregnancy, have someone else do any painting and cleaning with strong-smelling products.
Check with your healthcare team before taking any medications. Some medications can cause birth defects. Tell your healthcare team about all the medications you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Condition name:Thoracic aortic aneurysm
Overview of Thoracic aortic aneurysm:
A thoracic aortic aneurysm is a weakened area in the body's main artery in the chest. The body's main artery is called the aorta. When the aortic wall is weak, the artery may widen. When the vessel is significantly widened, it's called an aneurysm.
A thoracic aortic aneurysm also is called a thoracic aneurysm.
Treatment of a thoracic aortic aneurysm may vary from regular health checkups to emergency surgery. The type of treatment depends on the cause, size and growth rate of the thoracic aortic aneurysm.
Complications of a thoracic aortic aneurysm include rupture of the aorta or a life-threatening tear between the layers of the aorta's wall. The tear is called an aortic dissection. Rupture or dissection can lead to sudden death.
Thoracic aortic aneurysms are less common than aneurysms that form in the lower part of the aorta, called abdominal aortic aneurysms.
Home Remedies for Thoracic aortic aneurysm:
If you have a thoracic aortic aneurysm, your health care provider may tell you not to do heavy lifting and some vigorous physical activities. Such activities can increase blood pressure, putting additional pressure on your aneurysm.
If you want to participate in a particular activity, your health care provider may recommend an exercise stress test to see how exercise affects your blood pressure. Moderate physical activity is generally healthy for you.
Stress also can raise blood pressure, so find ways to help reduce emotional stress. Getting more exercise and practicing mindfulness are some ways to reduce stress.
Symptoms for Thoracic aortic aneurysm :
Thoracic aortic aneurysms often grow slowly. There are usually no symptoms, making them difficult to detect. Many start small and stay small. Others grow bigger over time. How quickly a thoracic aortic aneurysm may grow is difficult to predict.
As a thoracic aortic aneurysm grows, symptoms may include:
Back pain.
Cough.
Weak, scratchy voice.
Shortness of breath.
Tenderness or pain in the chest.
Symptoms that a thoracic aortic aneurysm has ruptured or dissected include:
Sharp, sudden pain in the upper back that spreads downward.
Pain in the chest, jaw, neck or arms.
Difficulty breathing.
Low blood pressure.
Loss of consciousness.
Shortness of breath.
Trouble swallowing.
Some aneurysms may never rupture or lead to dissection.
Causes for Thoracic aortic aneurysm :
Aortic aneurysms can develop anywhere in the body's main artery, called the aorta. The aorta runs from the heart through the chest and belly area. When an aneurysm occurs in the chest, it's called a thoracic aortic aneurysm.
If an aneurysm forms between the upper and lower parts of the aorta, it's called a thoracoabdominal aneurysm.
A thoracic aneurysm may be round or tube-shaped.
Aneurysms can occur anywhere in the thoracic aorta, including near the heart, in the aortic arch and in the lower part of the thoracic aorta.
Causes of thoracic aortic aneurysms may include:
Hardening of the arteries, called atherosclerosis. Plaque buildup on the artery walls causes the arteries to become less flexible. Additional pressure can cause the arteries to weaken and widen. High blood pressure and high cholesterol increase the risk of atherosclerosis. This is more common in older people.
Genetic conditions. Aortic aneurysms in younger people often have a genetic cause. Marfan syndrome, a genetic condition that affects the connective tissue in the body, may cause weakness in the wall of the aorta.
Other genetic conditions linked to aortic aneurysm and dissection and rupture include vascular Ehlers-Danlos, Loeys-Dietz and Turner syndromes.
Blood vessel inflammation. Conditions that involve blood vessel inflammation, such as giant cell arteritis and Takayasu arteritis, are associated with thoracic aortic aneurysms.
Irregular aortic valve. The aortic valve is between the lower left heart chamber and the aorta. People who are born with an aortic valve that has only two flaps instead of three have an increased risk of a thoracic aneurysm.
Untreated infection. Though rare, it's possible to develop a thoracic aortic aneurysm if you've had an untreated infection, such as syphilis or salmonella.
Traumatic injury. Rarely, some people who are injured in falls or motor vehicle crashes develop thoracic aortic aneurysms.
Risk Factors for Thoracic aortic aneurysm:
Thoracic aortic aneurysm risk factors include:
Age. Growing older increases the risk of aortic aneurysms. Thoracic aortic aneurysms occur most often in people age 65 and older.
Tobacco use. Smoking and using tobacco greatly increases the risk of an aortic aneurysm.
High blood pressure. Increased blood pressure damages the blood vessels in the body, raising the risk of an aneurysm.
Buildup of plaques in the arteries. The buildup of fat and other substances in the blood can damage the lining of a blood vessel, increasing the risk of an aneurysm. This is a more common risk in older people.
Family history. Having a parent, brother, sister or child with an aortic aneurysm increases the risk of an aortic aneurysm and rupture. You may develop aneurysms at a younger age.
Genetic conditions. If you have Marfan syndrome or a related condition, such as Loeys-Dietz syndrome or vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, you have a significantly higher risk of a thoracic aortic aneurysm. The risk also is increased for an aortic or other blood vessel dissection or rupture.
Bicuspid aortic valve. Having an aortic valve with two cusps instead of three increases the risk of aortic aneurysm.
Complications for Thoracic aortic aneurysm:
Tears in the wall of the aorta and rupture of the aorta are the main complications of thoracic aortic aneurysm. However, some small and slow-growing aneurysms may never rupture. In general, the larger the aneurysm, the greater the risk of rupture.
Complications of a thoracic aortic aneurysm and rupture can include:
Life-threatening bleeding inside the body. This is called internal bleeding. Emergency surgery is required to try to prevent death.
Blood clots. Small blood clots can develop in the area of the aortic aneurysm. If a blood clot breaks loose from the inside wall of an aneurysm, it can block a blood vessel elsewhere in the body. This can possibly cause serious complications.
Stroke. Signs and symptoms of stroke include weakness of or an inability to move one side of the body. It may be difficult to speak.
Preventions for Thoracic aortic aneurysm
Keeping the blood vessels as healthy as possible is important in preventing an aneurysm. A health care provider may recommend these heart-healthy strategies:
Don't smoke or use tobacco products.
Keep blood pressure and cholesterol levels under control.
Get regular exercise.
Reduce cholesterol and fat in the diet.
There are no medicines to prevent an aortic aneurysm. However, medicines may be used to treat high blood pressure, high cholesterol and other conditions linked to aneurysm. Proper management of such conditions may lower the risk of thoracic aortic aneurysm complications.
Condition name:Thoracic outlet syndrome
Overview of Thoracic outlet syndrome:
Thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS) is a group of conditions in which there's pressure on blood vessels or nerves in the area between the neck and shoulder. This space is known as the thoracic outlet. Compression of the blood vessels and nerves can cause shoulder and neck pain. It also can cause numbness in the fingers.
Common causes of thoracic outlet syndrome include trauma from a car accident, repetitive injuries from a job or sport, and pregnancy. Differences in anatomy, such as having an extra or irregular rib, also can cause TOS. Sometimes the cause of thoracic outlet syndrome is not known.
Treatment often involves physical therapy and pain relief. Most people improve with these treatments. For some, surgery may be recommended.
Home Remedies for Thoracic outlet syndrome:
If you're diagnosed with thoracic outlet syndrome, a physical therapist may instruct you to do exercises at home. The exercises can strengthen and support the muscles surrounding your thoracic outlet.
In general, to avoid unnecessary stress on your shoulders and muscles surrounding the thoracic outlet:
Maintain good posture.
Take frequent breaks at work to move and stretch.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Create a work area that allows you to keep good posture and doesn't make symptoms worse.
Gently massage your shoulders and thoracic outlet.
Apply a heating pad to the area.
Practice relaxation exercises such as deep breathing, meditation and stretching.
Symptoms for Thoracic outlet syndrome :
There are three types of thoracic outlet syndrome:
Neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome. This is the most common type of thoracic outlet syndrome. In this type, a group of nerves called the brachial plexus is compressed. The nerves of the brachial plexus come from the spinal cord. The nerves control muscle movements and feeling in the shoulder, arm and hand.
Venous thoracic outlet syndrome. This type of thoracic outlet syndrome occurs when one or more of the veins under the collarbone are compressed and damaged. This can result in blood clots.
Arterial thoracic outlet syndrome. This is the least common type of TOS. It occurs when one of the arteries under the collarbone is compressed. The compression may cause injury to the artery resulting in a bulge, known as an aneurysm, or blood clot formation.
Thoracic outlet syndrome symptoms can vary depending on the type. When nerves are compressed, symptoms of neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome include:
Numbness or tingling in the arm or fingers.
Pain or aches in the neck, shoulder, arm or hand.
Arm fatigue with activity.
A weakening grip.
Symptoms of venous thoracic outlet syndrome can include:
A change in the color of the hand or one or more fingers.
Hand or arm pain and swelling.
Symptoms of arterial thoracic outlet syndrome can include:
A pulsating lump near the collarbone.
Cold fingers, hands or arms.
Hand and arm pain.
A change in color in one or more of the fingers or the entire hand.
Weak or no pulse in the affected arm.
Causes for Thoracic outlet syndrome :
Thoracic outlet syndrome is often caused by compression of the nerves or blood vessels in the thoracic outlet, the area between the neck and shoulder. The cause of the compression varies and can include:
Differences in anatomy. Some people are born with an extra rib in the neck found above the first rib. The extra rib, known as a cervical rib, can compress nerves or blood vessels. There also may be a tight fibrous band connecting the spine to the rib that causes compression.
Poor posture. Drooping your shoulders or holding your head in a forward position can cause compression in the thoracic outlet area.
Trauma. A traumatic event, such as a car accident, can cause internal changes that then compress the nerves in the thoracic outlet. The onset of symptoms related to a traumatic accident often is delayed.
Risk Factors for Thoracic outlet syndrome:
There are several factors that seem to increase the risk of thoracic outlet syndrome, including:
Sex. Women are more than three times more likely to be diagnosed with thoracic outlet syndrome than are men.
Age. Thoracic outlet syndrome may occur at any age but is most commonly diagnosed in adults between the ages of 20 and 50.
Complications for Thoracic outlet syndrome:
Complications from this condition stem from the type of thoracic outlet syndrome. If you have swelling or a painful discoloration in the arm, it is important to seek urgent medical attention. You may need treatment for blood clots or an aneurysm.
For neurogenic TOS, repetitive nerve compression can result in long-term injury resulting in chronic pain or disability. Neurogenic TOS can be confused for other joint or muscle injuries. If symptoms don't improve, it is important to seek medical attention for an evaluation and testing.
Preventions for Thoracic outlet syndrome
If you're at risk of thoracic outlet compression, avoid repetitive movements and lifting heavy objects. If you're overweight, losing weight may help you prevent or relieve symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome.
Even if you don't have symptoms of thoracic outlet syndrome, avoid carrying heavy bags over your shoulder. This can increase pressure on the thoracic outlet. Stretch daily, and do exercises that keep your shoulder muscles strong and flexible.
Daily stretches focusing on the chest, neck and shoulders can help improve shoulder muscle strength and prevent thoracic outlet syndrome.
Condition name:Throat cancer
Overview of Throat cancer:
Throat cancer refers cancer that develops in your throat (pharynx) or voice box (larynx).
Your throat is a muscular tube that begins behind your nose and ends in your neck. Throat cancer most often begins in the flat cells that line the inside of your throat.
Your voice box sits just below your throat and also is susceptible to throat cancer. The voice box is made of cartilage and contains the vocal cords that vibrate to make sound when you talk.
Home Remedies for Throat cancer:
Quit smoking
Throat cancers are closely linked to smoking. Not everyone with throat cancer smokes. But if you do smoke, now is the time to stop because:
Smoking makes treatment less effective
Smoking makes it harder for your body to heal after surgery
Smoking increases your risk of getting another cancer in the future
Stopping smoking can be very difficult. And it's that much harder when you're trying to cope with a stressful situation, such as a cancer diagnosis. Your doctor can discuss all of your options, including medications, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Quit drinking alcohol
Alcohol, particularly when combined with smoking or chewing tobacco, greatly increases the risk of throat cancer. If you drink alcohol, stop now. This may help reduce your risk of a second cancer. Stopping drinking may also help you better tolerate your throat cancer treatments.
Symptoms for Throat cancer :
Signs and symptoms of throat cancer may include:
A cough
Changes in your voice, such as hoarseness or not speaking clearly
Difficulty swallowing
Ear pain
A lump or sore that doesn't heal
A sore throat
Weight loss
Causes for Throat cancer :
Throat cancer occurs when cells in your throat develop genetic mutations. These mutations cause cells to grow uncontrollably and continue living after healthy cells would normally die. The accumulating cells can form a tumor in your throat.
It's not clear what causes the mutation that causes throat cancer. But doctors have identified factors that may increase your risk.
Risk Factors for Throat cancer:
Factors that can increase your risk of throat cancer include:
Tobacco use, including smoking and chewing tobacco
Excessive alcohol use
Viral infections, including human papillomavirus (HPV) and Epstein-Barr virus
A diet lacking in fruits and vegetables
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Exposure to toxic substances at work
There are no Complications available for Throat cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Throat cancer
There's no proven way to prevent throat cancer from occurring. But in order to reduce your risk of throat cancer, you can:
Stop smoking or don't start smoking. If you smoke, quit. If you don't smoke, don't start. Stopping smoking can be very difficult, so get some help. Your doctor can discuss the benefits and risks of the many stop-smoking strategies, such as medication, nicotine replacement products and counseling.
Drink alcohol only in moderation, if at all. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Choose a healthy diet full of fruits and vegetables. The vitamins and antioxidants in fruits and vegetables may reduce your risk of throat cancer. Eat a variety of colorful fruits and vegetables.
Protect yourself from HPV. Some throat cancers are thought to be caused by the sexually transmitted infection human papillomavirus (HPV). You can reduce your risk of HPV by limiting your number of sexual partners and using a condom every time you have sex. Ask your doctor about the HPV vaccine, which may reduce the risk of throat cancer and other HPV-related cancers.
Condition name:Thrombocytopenia
Overview of Thrombocytopenia:
Thrombocytopenia is a condition in which you have a low blood platelet count. Platelets (thrombocytes) are colorless blood cells that help blood clot. Platelets stop bleeding by clumping and forming plugs in blood vessel injuries.
Thrombocytopenia might occur as a result of a bone marrow disorder such as leukemia or an immune system problem. Or it can be a side effect of taking certain medications. It affects both children and adults.
Thrombocytopenia can be mild and cause few signs or symptoms. In rare cases, the number of platelets can be so low that dangerous internal bleeding occurs. Treatment options are available.
Home Remedies for Thrombocytopenia:
If you have thrombocytopenia, try to:
Avoid activities that could cause injury. Ask your doctor which activities are safe for you. Contact sports, such as boxing, martial arts and football, carry a high risk of injury.
Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. Alcohol slows the production of platelets in your body. Ask your doctor whether it's OK for you to drink alcohol.
Use caution with over-the-counter medications. Over-the-counter pain medications, such as aspirin and ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) can prevent platelets from working properly.
Symptoms for Thrombocytopenia :
Thrombocytopenia signs and symptoms may include:
Easy or excessive bruising (purpura)
Superficial bleeding into the skin that appears as a rash of pinpoint-sized reddish-purple spots (petechiae), usually on the lower legs
Prolonged bleeding from cuts
Bleeding from your gums or nose
Blood in urine or stools
Unusually heavy menstrual flows
Fatigue
Enlarged spleen
Causes for Thrombocytopenia :
Thrombocytopenia means you have fewer than 150,000 platelets per microliter of circulating blood. Because each platelet lives only about 10 days, your body normally renews your platelet supply continually by producing new platelets in your bone marrow.
Thrombocytopenia rarely is inherited; or it can be caused by a number of medications or conditions. Whatever the cause, circulating platelets are reduced by one or more of the following processes: trapping of platelets in the spleen, decreased platelet production or increased destruction of platelets.
There are no Risk Factors available for Thrombocytopenia in the knowledge baseComplications for Thrombocytopenia:
Dangerous internal bleeding can occur when your platelet count falls below 10,000 platelets per microliter. Though rare, severe thrombocytopenia can cause bleeding into the brain, which can be fatal.
There are no preventive measures available for Thrombocytopenia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Thrombocytosis
Overview of Thrombocytosis:
Platelets are parts of the blood that help form blood clots. Thrombocytosis (throm-boe-sie-TOE-sis) is a disorder in which your body produces too many platelets.
It's called reactive thrombocytosis or secondary thrombocytosis when the cause is an underlying condition, such as an infection.
Less commonly, when the high platelet count has no apparent underlying condition as a cause, the disorder is called primary thrombocythemia or essential thrombocythemia. This is a blood and bone marrow disease.
A high platelet level may be detected in a routine blood test known as a complete blood count. It's important to determine whether it's reactive thrombocytosis or essential thrombocythemia to choose the best treatment options.
There are no home remedies available for Thrombocytosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Thrombocytosis :
People with high platelet levels often don't have signs or symptoms. When symptoms occur, they're often related to blood clots. Examples include:
Headache.
Confusion or changes in speech.
Chest pain.
Shortness of breath and nausea.
Weakness.
Burning pain in the hands or feet.
Less commonly, very high platelet levels may cause bleeding. This can cause:
Nosebleeds.
Bruising.
Bleeding from your mouth or gums.
Bloody stool.
Causes for Thrombocytosis :
Bone marrow is a spongy tissue inside your bones. It contains stem cells that can become red blood cells, white blood cells or platelets. Platelets stick together, helping blood to form a clot that stops bleeding when you damage a blood vessel, such as when you cut yourself. Thrombocytosis occurs when your body produces too many platelets.
There are no Risk Factors available for Thrombocytosis in the knowledge baseComplications for Thrombocytosis:
Essential thrombocythemia can lead to a variety of potentially life-threatening complications, such as:
Strokes. If a blood clot occurs in the arteries that supply the brain, it may cause a stroke. A mini stroke, also called a transient ischemic attack, is a temporary interruption of blood flow to part of the brain.
Heart attacks. Less commonly, essential thrombocythemia can cause clots in the arteries that supply blood to your heart.
Cancer. Rarely, essential thrombocythemia may lead to a type of leukemia that progresses quickly.
There are no preventive measures available for Thrombocytosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Thumb arthritis
Overview of Thumb arthritis:
Thumb arthritis is common with aging and occurs when cartilage wears away from the ends of the bones that form the joint at the base of your thumb — also known as the carpometacarpal (CMC) joint.
Thumb arthritis can cause severe pain, swelling, and decreased strength and range of motion, making it difficult to do simple tasks, such as turning doorknobs and opening jars. Treatment generally involves a combination of medication and splints. Severe thumb arthritis might require surgery.
Home Remedies for Thumb arthritis:
To ease pain and improve joint mobility, try to:
Modify hand tools. Consider purchasing adaptive equipment â€” such as jar openers, key turners and large zipper pulls â€” designed for people with limited hand strength. Replace traditional door handles, which you must grasp with your thumb, with levers.
Apply cold. Icing the joint for five to 15 minutes several times a day can help relieve swelling and pain.
Apply heat. For some, heat may be more effective than cold in relieving pain.
Toothbrushes with and without foam handles.
Symptoms for Thumb arthritis :
Pain is the first and most common symptom of thumb arthritis. Pain can occur at the base of your thumb when you grip, grasp or pinch an object, or use your thumb to apply force.
Other signs and symptoms might include:
Swelling, stiffness and tenderness at the base of your thumb
Decreased strength when pinching or grasping objects
Decreased range of motion
Enlarged or bony appearance of the joint at the base of your thumb
Causes for Thumb arthritis :
Thumb arthritis commonly occurs with aging. Previous trauma or injury to the thumb joint also can cause thumb arthritis.
In a normal thumb joint, cartilage covers the ends of the bones — acting as a cushion and allowing the bones to glide smoothly against each other. With thumb arthritis, the cartilage that covers the ends of the bones deteriorates, and its smooth surface roughens. The bones then rub against each other, resulting in friction and joint damage.
The damage to the joint might result in growth of new bone along the sides of the existing bone (bone spurs), which can produce noticeable lumps on your thumb joint.
Risk Factors for Thumb arthritis:
Factors that can increase your risk of thumb arthritis include:
Female sex.
Age above 40 years.
Obesity.
Certain hereditary conditions, such as joint ligament laxity and malformed joints.
Injuries to your thumb joint, such as fractures and sprains.
Diseases that change the normal structure and function of cartilage, such as rheumatoid arthritis. Although osteoarthritis is the most common cause of thumb arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis can also affect the CMC joint, usually to a lesser extent than other joints of the hand.
Activities and jobs that put high stress on the thumb joint.
There are no Complications available for Thumb arthritis in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Thumb arthritis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Thunderclap headaches
Overview of Thunderclap headaches:
Thunderclap headaches live up to their name, striking suddenly like a clap of thunder. The pain of these severe headaches peaks within 60 seconds.
Thunderclap headaches are uncommon, but they can warn of potentially life-threatening conditions — usually having to do with bleeding in and around the brain. Seek emergency medical attention for a thunderclap headache.
There are no home remedies available for Thunderclap headaches in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Thunderclap headaches :
Thunderclap headaches are dramatic. Symptoms include pain that:
Strikes suddenly and severely
Peaks within 60 seconds
Can be accompanied by nausea or vomiting
Thunderclap headaches might be accompanied by other signs and symptoms, such as:
Altered mental state
Fever
Seizures
These signs and symptoms might reflect the underlying cause.
Causes for Thunderclap headaches :
There's no obvious cause for some thunderclap headaches. In other cases, a variety of potentially life-threatening conditions might be responsible, including:
Bleeding between the brain and membranes covering the brain (subarachnoid hemorrhage)
A rupture of a blood vessel in the brain
A tear in the lining of an artery that supplies blood to the brain
Leaking of cerebrospinal fluid — usually due to a tear of the covering around a nerve root in the spine
Death of tissue or bleeding in the pituitary gland
A blood clot in the brain
Severe elevation in blood pressure (hypertensive crisis)
Infection such as meningitis or encephalitis
Ischemic stroke
There are no Risk Factors available for Thunderclap headaches in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Thunderclap headaches in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Thunderclap headaches in the knowledge baseCondition name:Thyroid cancer
Overview of Thyroid cancer:
Thyroid cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the thyroid. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of the neck, just below the Adam's apple. The thyroid produces hormones that regulate heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature and weight.
Thyroid cancer might not cause any symptoms at first. But as it grows, it can cause signs and symptoms, such as swelling in your neck, voice changes and difficulty swallowing.
Several types of thyroid cancer exist. Most types grow slowly, though some types can be very aggressive. Most thyroid cancers can be cured with treatment.
Thyroid cancer rates seem to be increasing. The increase may be caused by improved imaging technology that allows health care providers to find small thyroid cancers on CT and MRI scans done for other conditions (incidental thyroid cancers). Thyroid cancers found in this way are usually small cancers that respond well to treatments.
There are no home remedies available for Thyroid cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Thyroid cancer :
Most thyroid cancers don't cause any signs or symptoms early in the disease. As thyroid cancer grows, it may cause:
A lump (nodule) that can be felt through the skin on your neck
A feeling that close-fitting shirt collars are becoming too tight
Changes to your voice, including increasing hoarseness
Difficulty swallowing
Swollen lymph nodes in your neck
Pain in your neck and throat
Causes for Thyroid cancer :
Thyroid cancer happens when cells in the thyroid develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes, which doctors call mutations, tell the cells to grow and multiply rapidly. The cells go on living when healthy cells would naturally die. The accumulating cells form a mass called a tumor.
The tumor can grow to invade nearby tissue and can spread (metastasize) to the lymph nodes in the neck. Sometimes the cancer cells can spread beyond the neck to the lungs, bones and other parts of the body.
For most thyroid cancers, it's not clear what causes the DNA changes that cause the cancer.
Risk Factors for Thyroid cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of thyroid cancer include:
Female sex. Thyroid cancer occurs more often in women than in men. Experts think it may be related to the hormone estrogen. People who are assigned female sex at birth generally have higher levels of estrogen in their bodies.
Exposure to high levels of radiation. Radiation therapy treatments to the head and neck increase the risk of thyroid cancer.
Certain inherited genetic syndromes. Genetic syndromes that increase the risk of thyroid cancer include familial medullary thyroid cancer, multiple endocrine neoplasia, Cowden syndrome and familial adenomatous polyposis. Types of thyroid cancer that sometimes run in families include medullary thyroid cancer and papillary thyroid cancer.
There are no Complications available for Thyroid cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Thyroid cancer
Doctors aren't sure what causes the gene changes that lead to most thyroid cancers, so there's no way to prevent thyroid cancer in people who have an average risk of the disease.
Condition name:Tinnitus
Overview of Tinnitus:
Tinnitus is when you experience ringing or other noises in one or both of your ears. The noise you hear when you have tinnitus isn't caused by an external sound, and other people usually can't hear it. Tinnitus is a common problem. It affects about 15% to 20% of people, and is especially common in older adults.
Tinnitus is usually caused by an underlying condition, such as age-related hearing loss, an ear injury or a problem with the circulatory system. For many people, tinnitus improves with treatment of the underlying cause or with other treatments that reduce or mask the noise, making tinnitus less noticeable.
Home Remedies for Tinnitus:
Often, tinnitus can't be treated. Some people, however, get used to it and notice it less than they did at first. For many people, certain adjustments make the symptoms less bothersome. These tips may help:
Use hearing protection. Over time, exposure to loud sounds can damage the nerves in the ears, causing hearing loss and tinnitus. To keep your tinnitus from getting worse, take steps to protect your hearing. If you use chain saws, are a musician, work in an industry that uses loud machinery or use firearms (especially pistols or shotguns), always wear over-the-ear hearing protection.
Turn down the volume. Listening to music at very high volume through headphones can contribute to hearing loss and tinnitus.
Use white noise. If tinnitus is especially noticeable in quiet settings, try using a white noise machine to mask the noise from tinnitus. If you don't have a white noise machine, a fan, soft music or low-volume radio static also may help.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and nicotine. These substances, especially when used in excess, can affect blood flow and contribute to tinnitus.
Symptoms for Tinnitus :
Tinnitus is most often described as a ringing in the ears, even though no external sound is present. However, tinnitus can also cause other types of phantom noises in your ears, including:
Buzzing
Roaring
Clicking
Hissing
Humming
Most people who have tinnitus have subjective tinnitus, or tinnitus that only you can hear. The noises of tinnitus may vary in pitch from a low roar to a high squeal, and you may hear it in one or both ears. In some cases, the sound can be so loud it interferes with your ability to concentrate or hear external sound. Tinnitus may be present all the time, or it may come and go.
In rare cases, tinnitus can occur as a rhythmic pulsing or whooshing sound, often in time with your heartbeat. This is called pulsatile tinnitus. If you have pulsatile tinnitus, your doctor may be able to hear your tinnitus when he or she does an examination (objective tinnitus).
Causes for Tinnitus :
A number of health conditions can cause or worsen tinnitus. In many cases, an exact cause is never found.
Risk Factors for Tinnitus:
Anyone can experience tinnitus, but these factors may increase your risk:
Loud noise exposure. Loud noises, such as those from heavy equipment, chain saws and firearms, are common sources of noise-related hearing loss. Portable music devices, such as MP3 players, also can cause noise-related hearing loss if played loudly for long periods. People who work in noisy environments — such as factory and construction workers, musicians, and soldiers — are particularly at risk.
Age. As you age, the number of functioning nerve fibers in your ears declines, possibly causing hearing problems often associated with tinnitus.
Sex. Men are more likely to experience tinnitus.
Tobacco and alcohol use. Smokers have a higher risk of developing tinnitus. Drinking alcohol also increases the risk of tinnitus.
Certain health problems. Obesity, cardiovascular problems, high blood pressure, and a history of arthritis or head injury all increase your risk of tinnitus.
Complications for Tinnitus:
Tinnitus affects people differently. For some people, tinnitus can significantly affect quality of life. If you have tinnitus, you may also experience:
Fatigue
Stress
Sleep problems
Trouble concentrating
Memory problems
Depression
Anxiety and irritability
Headaches
Problems with work and family life
Treating these linked conditions may not affect tinnitus directly, but it can help you feel better.
Preventions for Tinnitus
In many cases, tinnitus is the result of something that can't be prevented. However, some precautions can help prevent certain kinds of tinnitus.
Use hearing protection. Over time, exposure to loud sounds can damage the nerves in the ears, causing hearing loss and tinnitus. Try to limit your exposure to loud sounds. And if you cannot avoid loud sounds, use ear protection to help protect your hearing. If you use chain saws, are a musician, work in an industry that uses loud machinery or use firearms (especially pistols or shotguns), always wear over-the-ear hearing protection.
Turn down the volume. Long-term exposure to amplified music with no ear protection or listening to music at very high volume through headphones can cause hearing loss and tinnitus.
Take care of your cardiovascular health. Regular exercise, eating right and taking other steps to keep your blood vessels healthy can help prevent tinnitus linked to obesity and blood vessel disorders.
Limit alcohol, caffeine and nicotine. These substances, especially when used in excess, can affect blood flow and contribute to tinnitus.
Condition name:TMJ disorders
Overview of TMJ disorders:
The temporomandibular (tem-puh-roe-man-DIB-u-lur) joint (TMJ) acts like a sliding hinge, connecting your jawbone to your skull. You have one joint on each side of your jaw. TMJ disorders — a type of temporomandibular disorder or TMD — can cause pain in your jaw joint and in the muscles that control jaw movement.
The exact cause of a person's TMJ disorder is often difficult to determine. Your pain may be due to a combination of factors, such as genetics, arthritis or jaw injury. Some people who have jaw pain also tend to clench or grind their teeth (bruxism), although many people habitually clench or grind their teeth and never develop TMJ disorders.
In most cases, the pain and discomfort associated with TMJ disorders is temporary and can be relieved with self-managed care or nonsurgical treatments. Surgery is typically a last resort after conservative measures have failed, but some people with TMJ disorders may benefit from surgical treatments.
Home Remedies for TMJ disorders:
Becoming more aware of tension-related habits â€” clenching your jaw, grinding your teeth or chewing pencils â€” will help you reduce their frequency. The following tips may help you reduce symptoms of TMJ disorders:
Avoid overuse of jaw muscles. Eat soft foods. Cut food into small pieces. Steer clear of sticky or chewy food. Avoid chewing gum.
Stretching and massage. Your doctor, dentist or physical therapist may show you how to do exercises that stretch and strengthen your jaw muscles and how to massage the muscles yourself.
Heat or cold. Applying warm, moist heat or ice to the side of your face may help alleviate pain.
Symptoms for TMJ disorders :
Signs and symptoms of TMJ disorders may include:
Pain or tenderness of your jaw
Pain in one or both of the temporomandibular joints
Aching pain in and around your ear
Difficulty chewing or pain while chewing
Aching facial pain
Locking of the joint, making it difficult to open or close your mouth
TMJ disorders can also cause a clicking sound or grating sensation when you open your mouth or chew. But if there's no pain or limitation of movement associated with your jaw clicking, you probably don't need treatment for a TMJ disorder.
Causes for TMJ disorders :
The temporomandibular joint combines a hinge action with sliding motions. The parts of the bones that interact in the joint are covered with cartilage and are separated by a small shock-absorbing disk, which normally keeps the movement smooth.
Painful TMJ disorders can occur if:
The disk erodes or moves out of its proper alignment
The joint's cartilage is damaged by arthritis
The joint is damaged by a blow or other impact
In many cases, however, the cause of TMJ disorders isn't clear.
Risk Factors for TMJ disorders:
Factors that may increase the risk of developing TMJ disorders include:
Various types of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis
Jaw injury
Long-term (chronic) grinding or clenching of teeth
Certain connective tissue diseases that cause problems that may affect the temporomandibular joint
There are no Complications available for TMJ disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for TMJ disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tongue cancer
Overview of Tongue cancer:
Tongue cancer is a type of cancer that starts as a growth of cells on the tongue. The tongue begins in the throat and extends into the mouth. It's made up of muscles and nerves that help with movement and function, such as taste. The tongue aids in speaking, eating and swallowing.
Tongue cancer that starts in the mouth is different from tongue cancer that starts in the throat.
In the mouth, tongue cancer is called oral tongue cancer. Tongue cancer in the mouth can cause symptoms right away. A doctor, dentist or other member of your health care team might notice it first because this part of the tongue is easily seen and examined.
In the throat, tongue cancer is called oropharyngeal tongue cancer. It may grow for a while before it causes symptoms. When symptoms happen, they tend to be symptoms that have many possible causes. If you have a sore throat or ear pain, your health care team might first check for causes other than cancer. Cancer at the back of the tongue is hard to see and examine. For these reasons, the cancer often isn't diagnosed right away. It's often found after the cancer cells have spread to the lymph nodes in the neck.
Several types of cancer can affect the tongue. Tongue cancer most often begins in the thin, flat cells that line the surface of the tongue, called squamous cells. Tongue cancer that starts in these cells is called squamous cell carcinoma.
Your health care team considers the type of cancer cells when making a treatment plan. The team also considers the location and size of the cancer. Tongue cancer treatment typically involves surgery and radiation therapy. Other options might be chemotherapy and targeted therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Tongue cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tongue cancer :
Tongue cancer might not cause symptoms at first. Sometimes it's found by a doctor or dentist who examines the mouth for signs of cancer as part of a checkup.
When tongue cancer happens in the mouth, the first sign is often a sore on the tongue that doesn't heal. Other symptoms may include pain or bleeding in the mouth and a lump or thickening on the tongue.
When tongue cancer happens in the throat, the first sign can be swollen lymph nodes in the neck. Other symptoms may include coughing up blood, weight loss and ear pain. There also may be a lump in the back of the mouth, throat or neck.
Other tongue cancer symptoms may include:
A red or white patch on the tongue or lining of the mouth.
A sore throat that doesn't go away.
A feeling that something is caught in the throat.
Numbness of the mouth or tongue.
Difficulty or pain with chewing, swallowing, or moving the jaws or tongue.
Swelling of the jaw.
A change in voice.
Causes for Tongue cancer :
Tongue cancer starts when healthy cells in the tongue develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell the cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow out of control and to continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural life cycle. This makes a lot of extra cells. The cells can form a growth, called a tumor. In time, the cells can break away and spread to other areas of the body.
It's not always clear what causes the changes that lead to tongue cancer. For some tongue cancers that happen in the throat, human papillomavirus, also called HPV, can be involved. HPV is a common virus that's transmitted through sexual contact. Tongue cancer in the throat that's caused by HPV tends to respond better to treatment compared with tongue cancer in the throat that's not related to HPV.
Risk Factors for Tongue cancer:
The most common factors that can increase the risk of tongue cancer include:
Tobacco use. Tobacco is the single largest risk factor for tongue cancer. All forms of tobacco, including cigarettes, cigars, pipes, chewing tobacco and snuff, increase the risk.
Consuming alcohol. Frequent and heavy drinking increases the risk of tongue cancer. Using alcohol and tobacco together increases the risk even more.
Being exposed to HPV. In recent years, tongue cancer in the throat has become more common in those exposed to specific types of HPV.
Other factors may include:
Being male. Men are more likely to develop tongue cancer than women. This may be from higher rates of tobacco and alcohol use in men.
Increasing age. People older than 45 have an increased risk of tongue cancer. This is typically from years of tobacco and alcohol use.
Trouble maintaining oral hygiene. Lack of dental care can contribute to tongue cancer. The risk is even higher in those who use alcohol and tobacco.
Having a weak immune system. This can happen if you take medicine to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. It also can be caused by illness, such as infection with HIV.
There are no Complications available for Tongue cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Tongue cancer
You can reduce your risk of tongue cancer by:
Don't use tobacco. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. If you currently use tobacco of any kind, talk with your health care team about strategies to help you quit.
Limit alcohol intake. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Consider the HPV vaccine. Receiving a vaccination to prevent HPV infection may reduce your risk of HPV-related cancers, such as tongue cancer. Ask your health care team whether an HPV vaccine is appropriate for you.
Have regular health and dental exams. During your appointments, your dentist, doctor or other member of your health care team can check your mouth for signs of cancer and precancerous changes.
Condition name:Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia)
Overview of Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia):
Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) is a condition present at birth that restricts the tongue's range of motion.
With tongue-tie, an unusually short, thick or tight band of tissue (lingual frenulum) tethers the bottom of the tongue's tip to the floor of the mouth. Depending on how much the tissue restricts tongue movement, it may interfere with breastfeeding. Someone who has tongue-tie might have difficulty sticking out the tongue. Tongue-tie can also affect eating or speaking.
Sometimes tongue-tie may not cause problems. Some cases may require a simple surgical procedure for correction.
There are no home remedies available for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) :
Signs and symptoms of tongue-tie include:
Difficulty lifting the tongue to the upper teeth or moving the tongue from side to side.
Trouble sticking out the tongue past the lower front teeth.
A tongue that appears notched or heart shaped when stuck out.
Causes for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) :
Typically, the lingual frenulum separates before birth, allowing the tongue free range of motion. With tongue-tie, the lingual frenulum remains attached to the bottom of the tongue. Why this happens is largely unknown, although some cases of tongue-tie have been associated with certain genetic factors.
Risk Factors for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia):
Although tongue-tie can affect anyone, it's more common in boys than girls. Tongue-tie sometimes runs in families.
Complications for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia):
Tongue-tie may affect a baby's oral development, as well as the way the child eats, speaks and swallows.
For example, tongue-tie can sometimes lead to:
Breastfeeding problems. Breastfeeding requires a baby to keep the tongue over the lower gum while sucking. If unable to move the tongue or keep it in the right position, the baby might chew instead of suck on the nipple. This can cause significant nipple pain and interfere with a baby's ability to get breast milk. Ultimately, poor breastfeeding can lead to inadequate nutrition and failure to thrive.
Speech difficulties. Tongue-tie can interfere with the ability to make certain sounds — such as "t," "d," "z," "s," "th," "n" and "l."
Poor oral hygiene. For an older child or adult, tongue-tie can make it difficult to sweep food debris from the teeth. This can contribute to tooth decay and inflammation of the gums (gingivitis).
Challenges with other oral activities. Tongue-tie can interfere with activities such as licking an ice cream cone, licking the lips, kissing or playing a wind instrument.
There are no preventive measures available for Tongue-tie (ankyloglossia) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure
Overview of Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure:
A tonic-clonic seizure, previously known as a grand mal seizure, causes a loss of consciousness and violent muscle contractions. It's the type of seizure most people picture when they think about seizures.
During a seizure, there's a burst of electrical activity in the brain that causes changes in behavior and movements. Seizures can be focal, meaning the burst of electrical activity happens in one area of the brain. Or seizures can be generalized, in which they result in electrical activity in all areas of the brain. Tonic-clonic seizures may begin as focal seizures in a small area of the brain and spread to become generalized seizures that involve the whole brain.
Focal and generalized seizures have different symptoms. People who have generalized seizures usually lose consciousness. But people who have focal seizures may or may not lose consciousness. In tonic-clonic seizures, the muscles become stiff, causing the person to fall. Then the muscles alternately flex and relax.
Usually, a tonic-clonic seizure is caused by epilepsy. But sometimes this type of seizure can be triggered by other health problems. Very low blood sugar, a high fever or a stroke can cause a tonic-conic seizure.
Many people who have a tonic-clonic seizure never have another one and don't need treatment. But someone who has recurrent seizures may need treatment with daily anti-seizure medicines to control and prevent future tonic-clonic seizures.
Home Remedies for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure:
Here are some steps you can take to help with seizure control:
Take medicine correctly. Don't adjust the dosage before talking to a healthcare professional. Tell the health professional if you feel your medicine should be changed.
Get enough sleep. Lack of sleep can trigger seizures. Be sure to get adequate rest every night.
Wear a medical alert bracelet. This helps emergency personnel know how to treat you correctly if you have another seizure.
Personal safety
Seizures don't usually result in serious injury. But injury is possible if you have recurrent seizures. These steps can help you avoid injury during a seizure:
Take care near water. Don't swim alone or ride in a boat without someone nearby.
Wear a helmet for protection during activities such as bike riding or sports participation.
Take showers instead of baths unless someone is near you.
Modify your furnishings. Pad sharp corners, buy furniture with rounded edges and choose chairs that have arms to keep you from falling off the chair. Consider carpet with thick padding to protect you if you fall.
Display seizure first-aid tips in a place where people can easily see them. Include any important phone numbers there, too.
Seizure first aid
It's helpful to know what to do if you witness someone having a seizure. If you're at risk of having seizures in the future, pass this information along to family, friends and co-workers so that they know what to do.
To help someone during a seizure:
Carefully roll the person onto one side.
Place something soft under the person's head.
Loosen tight clothes from around the neck.
Remove eyeglasses.
Don't put your fingers or other objects in the person's mouth.
Don't try to restrain someone having a seizure.
Clear away dangerous objects if the person is moving.
Stay with the person until medical personnel arrive.
Observe the person closely so that you can provide details on what happened.
Time the seizure.
Check for a medical alert bracelet or ID.
Stay calm.
Symptoms for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure :
Tonic-clonic seizures have two stages:
Tonic phase. Loss of consciousness occurs. The muscles suddenly contract and cause the person to fall down. This phase tends to last about 10 to 20 seconds.
Clonic phase. The muscles go into rhythmic contractions. They alternately flex and relax. Convulsions usually last 1 to 2 minutes or less.
The following symptoms occur in some but not all people with tonic-clonic seizures:
A scream. Some people may cry out at the beginning of a seizure.
Loss of bowel and bladder control. This may happen during or following a seizure.
Not responding after convulsions. The person may not become conscious for several minutes after convulsions have ended.
Confusion. The person often is disoriented after a tonic-clonic seizure. This is referred to as postictal confusion.
Fatigue. Sleepiness is common after a tonic-clonic seizure.
Bad headache. Headaches may occur after a tonic-clonic seizure.
Causes for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure :
The brain's nerve cells typically communicate by sending electrical and chemical signals across the synapses that connect the cells. Tonic-clonic seizures occur when there's a surge of electrical activity over the surface of the brain. Many nerve cells fire at once, much faster than usual. Exactly what causes the changes to occur often is not known.
However, tonic-clonic seizures are sometimes caused by underlying health problems, such as:
Risk Factors for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure:
Risk factors for tonic-clonic seizures include:
A family history of seizure disorders.
Any injury to the brain from trauma, a stroke, previous infection and other causes.
Sleep deprivation.
Medical problems that affect electrolyte balance.
Illicit drug use.
Heavy alcohol use.
Complications for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure:
Having a seizure at certain times can be dangerous for you or others. You might be at risk of:
Falling. If you fall during a seizure, you can injure your head or break a bone.
Drowning. If you have a seizure while swimming or bathing, you're at risk of accidental drowning.
Car accidents. A seizure that causes either loss of awareness or control can be dangerous if you're driving a car or operating other equipment.
Pregnancy complications. Seizures during pregnancy pose dangers to both mother and baby. And certain anti-seizure medicines increase the risk of birth defects. If you have epilepsy and plan to become pregnant, talk with a healthcare professional. Your medicines may need to be adjusted. A healthcare professional likely will monitor your pregnancy.
Emotional health issues. People with seizures are more likely to have depression and anxiety. Emotional health issues may be a result of dealing with the condition itself or as a result of medicine side effects.
There are no preventive measures available for Tonic-clonic (grand mal) seizure in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tonsil cancer
Overview of Tonsil cancer:
Tonsil cancer is an abnormal growth of cells that forms in a tonsil. Your tonsils are two oval-shaped pads in the back of your mouth that are part of your body's germ-fighting immune system.
Tonsil cancer can cause difficulty swallowing and a sensation that something is caught in your throat. Tonsil cancer is often diagnosed late in the disease, when cancer has spread to nearby areas, such as the lymph nodes in the neck.
Treatments for tonsil cancer include surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy.
There are no home remedies available for Tonsil cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tonsil cancer :
Signs and symptoms of tonsil cancer include:
Difficulty swallowing
A sensation that something is caught in the back of your throat
Swelling and pain in the neck
Earache
Jaw stiffness
Causes for Tonsil cancer :
Tonsil cancer forms when healthy cells in the tonsils develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow out of control and to continue living when healthy cells would normally die. The accumulating cells form a tumor that can grow beyond the tonsils and spread to other areas of the body.
It's not clear what causes tonsil cancer, but doctors are finding that human papillomavirus (HPV) is increasingly playing a role. This common sexually transmitted infection is detected in most tonsil cancers in the United States. Tonsil cancer caused by HPV tends to occur at a younger age and is more likely to respond well to available treatments.
Risk Factors for Tonsil cancer:
Factors that may increase the risk of tonsil cancer include:
Using tobacco
Drinking alcohol
Being infected with human papillomavirus (HPV)
There are no Complications available for Tonsil cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Tonsil cancer
To reduce your risk of tonsil cancer:
Don't use tobacco. If you don't use tobacco, don't start. If you currently use tobacco of any kind, talk with your doctor about strategies to help you quit.
Limit alcohol if you choose to drink. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Get regular dental care. During your appointment, your dentist will check your mouth for signs of cancer and precancerous changes.
Consider the HPV vaccine. Receiving a vaccination to prevent HPV infection may reduce your risk of HPV-related cancers, such as tonsil cancer. Ask your doctor whether an HPV vaccine is appropriate for you.
Condition name:Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR)
Overview of Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR):
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Total anomalous pulmonary venous return (TAPVR) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tourette syndrome
Overview of Tourette syndrome:
Tourette (too-RET) syndrome is a disorder that involves repetitive movements or unwanted sounds (tics) that can't be easily controlled. For instance, you might repeatedly blink your eyes, shrug your shoulders or blurt out unusual sounds or offensive words.
Tics typically show up between ages 2 and 15, with the average being around 6 years of age. Males are about three to four times more likely than females to develop Tourette syndrome.
Although there's no cure for Tourette syndrome, treatments are available. Many people with Tourette syndrome don't need treatment when symptoms aren't troublesome. Tics often lessen or become controlled after the teen years.
There are no home remedies available for Tourette syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tourette syndrome :
Tics — sudden, brief, intermittent movements or sounds — are the hallmark sign of Tourette syndrome. They can range from mild to severe. Severe symptoms might significantly interfere with communication, daily functioning and quality of life.
Tics are classified as:
Simple tics. These sudden, brief and repetitive tics involve a limited number of muscle groups.
Complex tics. These distinct, coordinated patterns of movements involve several muscle groups.
Tics can also involve movement (motor tics) or sounds (vocal tics). Motor tics usually begin before vocal tics do. But the spectrum of tics that people experience is diverse.
In addition, tics can:
Vary in type, frequency and severity
Worsen if you're ill, stressed, anxious, tired or excited
Occur during sleep
Change over time
Worsen in the early teenage years and improve during the transition into adulthood
Before the onset of motor or vocal tics, you'll likely experience an uncomfortable bodily sensation (premonitory urge) such as an itch, a tingle or tension. Expression of the tic brings relief. With great effort, some people with Tourette syndrome can temporarily stop or hold back a tic.
Causes for Tourette syndrome :
The exact cause of Tourette syndrome isn't known. It's a complex disorder likely caused by a combination of inherited (genetic) and environmental factors. Chemicals in the brain that transmit nerve impulses (neurotransmitters), including dopamine and serotonin, might play a role.
Risk Factors for Tourette syndrome:
Risk factors for Tourette syndrome include:
Family history. Having a family history of Tourette syndrome or other tic disorders might increase the risk of developing Tourette syndrome.
Sex. Males are about three to four times more likely than females to develop Tourette syndrome.
Complications for Tourette syndrome:
People with Tourette syndrome often lead healthy, active lives. However, Tourette syndrome frequently involves behavioral and social challenges that can harm your self-image.
Conditions often associated with Tourette syndrome include:
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
Autism spectrum disorder
Learning disabilities
Sleep disorders
Depression
Anxiety disorders
Pain related to tics, especially headaches
Anger-management problems
There are no preventive measures available for Tourette syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Toxic hepatitis
Overview of Toxic hepatitis:
Toxic hepatitis is an inflammation of your liver in reaction to certain substances to which you're exposed. Toxic hepatitis can be caused by alcohol, chemicals, drugs or nutritional supplements.
In some cases, toxic hepatitis develops within hours or days of exposure to a toxin. In other cases, it may take months of regular use before signs and symptoms appear.
The symptoms of toxic hepatitis often go away when exposure to the toxin stops. But toxic hepatitis can permanently damage your liver, leading to irreversible scarring of liver tissue (cirrhosis) and in some cases to liver failure, which can be life-threatening.
There are no home remedies available for Toxic hepatitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Toxic hepatitis :
Mild forms of toxic hepatitis may not cause any symptoms and may be detected only by blood tests. When signs and symptoms of toxic hepatitis occur, they may include:
Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice)
Itching
Abdominal pain in the upper right portion of the abdomen
Fatigue
Loss of appetite
Nausea and vomiting
Rash
Fever
Weight loss
Dark or tea-colored urine
Causes for Toxic hepatitis :
Toxic hepatitis occurs when your liver develops inflammation because of exposure to a toxic substance. Toxic hepatitis may also develop when you take too much of a prescription or over-the-counter medication.
The liver normally removes and breaks down most drugs and chemicals from your bloodstream. Breaking down toxins creates byproducts that can damage the liver. Although the liver has a great capacity for regeneration, constant exposure to toxic substances can cause serious, sometimes irreversible harm.
Toxic hepatitis can be caused by:
Alcohol. Heavy drinking over many years can lead to alcoholic hepatitis — inflammation in the liver due to alcohol, which can lead to liver failure.
Over-the-counter pain relievers. Nonprescription pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), aspirin, ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) and naproxen (Aleve, others) can damage your liver, especially if taken frequently or combined with alcohol.
Prescription medications. Some medications linked to serious liver injury include the statin drugs used to treat high cholesterol, the combination drug amoxicillin-clavulanate (Augmentin), phenytoin (Dilantin, Phenytek), azathioprine (Azasan, Imuran), niacin (Niaspan), ketoconazole, certain antivirals and anabolic steroids. There are many others.
Herbs and supplements. Some herbs considered dangerous to the liver include aloe vera, black cohosh, cascara, chaparral, comfrey, kava and ephedra. There are many others. Children can develop liver damage if they mistake vitamin supplements for candy and take large doses.
Industrial chemicals. Chemicals you may be exposed to on the job can cause liver injury. Common chemicals that can cause liver damage include the dry cleaning solvent carbon tetrachloride, a substance called vinyl chloride (used to make plastics), the herbicide paraquat and a group of industrial chemicals called polychlorinated biphenyls.
Risk Factors for Toxic hepatitis:
Factors that may increase your risk of toxic hepatitis include:
Taking over-the-counter pain relievers or certain prescription drugs. Taking a medication or over-the-counter pain reliever that carries a risk of liver damage increases your risk of toxic hepatitis. This is especially true if you take multiple medications or take more than the recommended dose of medication.
Having a liver disease. Having a serious liver disorder such as cirrhosis or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease makes you much more susceptible to the effects of toxins.
Having hepatitis. Chronic infection with a hepatitis virus (hepatitis B, hepatitis C or one of the other — extremely rare — hepatitis viruses that may persist in the body) makes your liver more vulnerable.
Aging. As you age, your liver breaks down harmful substances more slowly. This means that toxins and their byproducts stay in your body longer.
Drinking alcohol. Drinking alcohol while taking medications or certain herbal supplements increases the risk of toxicity.
Being female. Because women seem to metabolize certain toxins more slowly than men do, their livers are exposed to higher blood concentrations of harmful substances for a longer time. This increases the risk of toxic hepatitis.
Having certain genetic mutations. Inheriting certain genetic mutations that affect the production and action of the liver enzymes that break down toxins may make you more susceptible to toxic hepatitis.
Working with industrial toxins. Working with certain industrial chemicals puts you at risk of toxic hepatitis.
Complications for Toxic hepatitis:
The inflammation associated with toxic hepatitis can lead to liver damage and scarring. Over time, this scarring, called cirrhosis, makes it difficult for your liver to do its job. Eventually cirrhosis leads to liver failure. The only treatment for chronic liver failure is to replace your liver with a healthy one from a donor (liver transplant).
Preventions for Toxic hepatitis
Because it's not possible to know how you'll react to a particular medication, toxic hepatitis can't always be prevented. But you may reduce your risk of liver problems if you:
Limit medications. Take prescription and nonprescription drugs only when absolutely necessary. Investigate nondrug options for common problems such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol and arthritis pain.
Take medications only as directed. Follow the directions exactly for any drug you take. Don't exceed the recommended amount, even if your symptoms don't seem to improve. Because the effects of over-the-counter pain relievers sometimes wear off quickly, it's easy to take too much.
Be cautious with herbs and supplements. Don't assume that a natural product won't cause harm. Discuss the benefits and risks with your doctor before taking herbs and supplements. The National Institutes of Health maintains the LiverTox website, where you can look up medications and supplements to see if they're linked to liver damage.
Don't mix alcohol and drugs. Alcohol and medications are a bad combination. If you're taking acetaminophen, don't drink alcohol. Ask your doctor or pharmacist about the interaction between alcohol and other prescription and nonprescription drugs you use.
Take precautions with chemicals. If you work with or use hazardous chemicals, take all necessary precautions to protect yourself from exposure. If you do come in contact with a harmful substance, follow the guidelines in your workplace, or call your local emergency services or your local poison control center for help.
Keep medications and chemicals away from children. Keep all medications and vitamin supplements away from children and in childproof containers so that children can't accidentally swallow them.
Condition name:Toxoplasmosis
Overview of Toxoplasmosis:
Toxoplasmosis (tok-so-plaz-MOE-sis) is an infection with a parasite called Toxoplasma gondii. People often get the infection from eating undercooked meat. You can also get it from contact with cat feces. The parasite can pass to a baby during pregnancy.
Most people infected with the parasite do not have symptoms. Some people get flu-like symptoms. Serious disease most often affects infants and people with weakened immune systems. Toxoplasmosis during pregnancy may cause miscarriage and birth defects.
Most infections don't need treatment. Drug treatment is used for people with more-serious cases, pregnant people, newborns and people with weakened immune systems. Several steps to prevent toxoplasmosis can lower the risk of infection.
There are no home remedies available for Toxoplasmosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Toxoplasmosis :
Most people infected with toxoplasmosis do not have any symptoms. They often don't know they're infected. Some people have flu-like symptoms, including:
Fever.
Swollen lymph nodes that may last for weeks.
Headache.
Muscle aches.
Skin rash.
Causes for Toxoplasmosis :
Toxoplasma gondii is a parasite that can infect most animals and birds. It can only go through the entire cycle of reproduction in domestic and wild cats. These are the main hosts for the parasite.
Immature eggs, a middle stage of reproduction, can be in the feces of cats. This immature egg allows for the parasite to make its way through the food chain. It can pass from soil and water to plants, animals and humans. Once the parasite has a new host, the reproduction cycle goes on and causes an infection.
If you're in typical health, your immune system keeps the parasites in check. They stay in your body but are not active. This often gives you lifelong immunity. If you're exposed to the parasite again, your immune system would clear it out.
If your immune system is weakened later in life, parasite reproduction can start again. This causes a new active infection that can lead to serious disease and complications.
People often get a toxoplasma infection one of the following ways:
Cat feces with the parasite. Cats that hunt or who are fed raw meat are more likely to carry toxoplasma parasites. You may get infected if you touch your mouth after touching anything that has been in contact with cat feces. This may be gardening or cleaning a litter box.
Contaminated food or water. Undercooked beef, lamb, pork, venison, chicken and shellfish are all known carriers of the parasite. Unpasteurized goat milk and untreated drinking water also may be carriers.
Unwashed fruits and vegetables. The surface of fruits and vegetables may have the parasite on them.
Contaminated kitchen tool. Parasites may be on cutting boards, knives and other utensils that come into contact with raw meat or unwashed fruits and vegetables.
Infected organ transplant or transfused blood. Rarely, toxoplasma parasites are passed through an organ transplant or blood transfusion.
Risk Factors for Toxoplasmosis:
The parasite is found throughout the world. Anyone can become infected.
Risks of serious disease from toxoplasmosis include things that prevent the immune system from fighting infections, such as:
Infection with HIV/AIDS.
Chemotherapy treatment for cancer.
High-dose steroids.
Drugs that prevent the rejection of transplanted organs.
There are no Complications available for Toxoplasmosis in the knowledge basePreventions for Toxoplasmosis
Certain precautions can help prevent toxoplasmosis:
Wear gloves when you garden or handle soil. Wear gloves when you work outdoors. Wash your hands with soap and water afterward.
Don't eat raw or undercooked meat. Use a meat thermometer to make sure meat is cooked enough. Cook whole meats and fish to at least 145 F (63 C) and let rest for at least three minutes. Cook ground meat to at least 160 F (71 C). Cook whole and ground poultry to at least 165 F (74 C).
Don't eat raw shellfish. Do not eat raw clams, mussels or oysters, particularly during pregnancy.
Wash kitchen utensils thoroughly. Wash cutting boards, knives and other utensils with soapy water after contact with raw meats or unwashed fruits and vegetables. Wash your hands thoroughly before and after preparing foods.
Wash all fruits and vegetables. Wash fresh fruits and vegetables before eating, peeling or cooking.
Don't drink unpasteurized goat milk. Avoid unpasteurized goat milk or products made from the milk.
Don't drink untreated water. During pregnancy, do not drink untreated water.
Cover children's sandboxes. Cover sandboxes to prevent outdoor cats from using them as litter boxes.
Condition name:Trachoma
Overview of Trachoma:
Trachoma (truh-KOH-muh) is a bacterial infection that affects your eyes. It's caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. Trachoma is contagious, spreading through contact with the eyes, eyelids, and nose or throat secretions of infected people. It can also be passed on by handling infected items, such as handkerchiefs.
At first, trachoma may cause mild itching and irritation of your eyes and eyelids. Then you may notice swollen eyelids and pus draining from the eyes. Untreated trachoma can lead to blindness.
Trachoma is the leading preventable cause of blindness worldwide. Most trachoma cases occur in poor areas of Africa, where 85% of people with active disease reside. In areas where trachoma is prevalent, infection rates among children under 5 can be 60% or more.
Early treatment may help prevent trachoma complications.
There are no home remedies available for Trachoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Trachoma :
Signs and symptoms of trachoma usually affect both eyes and may include:
Mild itching and irritation of the eyes and eyelids
Eye discharge containing mucus or pus
Eyelid swelling
Light sensitivity (photophobia)
Eye pain
Eye redness
Vision loss
Young children are particularly susceptible to infection. But the disease progresses slowly, and the more painful symptoms may not emerge until adulthood.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has identified five stages in the development of trachoma:
Inflammation — follicular. The early infection has five or more follicles — small bumps that contain lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell — visible with magnification on the inner surface of your upper eyelid (conjunctiva).
Inflammation — intense. In this stage, your eye is now highly infectious and becomes irritated, with a thickening or swelling of the upper eyelid.
Eyelid scarring. Repeated infections lead to scarring of the inner eyelid. The scars often appear as white lines when examined with magnification. Your eyelid may become distorted and may turn in (entropion).
In-turned eyelashes (trichiasis). The scarred inner lining of your eyelid continues to deform, causing your lashes to turn in so that they rub on and scratch the transparent outer surface of your eye (cornea).
Corneal clouding (opacity). The cornea becomes affected by an inflammation that is most commonly seen under your upper lid. Continuous inflammation compounded by scratching from the in-turned lashes leads to clouding of the cornea.
All the signs of trachoma are more severe in your upper lid than in your lower lid. Without intervention, a disease process that begins in childhood can continue to advance into adulthood.
Causes for Trachoma :
Trachoma is caused by certain subtypes of Chlamydia trachomatis, a bacterium that can also cause the sexually transmitted infection chlamydia.
Trachoma spreads through contact with discharge from the eyes or nose of an infected person. Hands, clothing, towels and insects can all be routes for transmission. In developing countries, eye-seeking flies also are a means of transmission.
Risk Factors for Trachoma:
Factors that increase your risk of contracting trachoma include:
Crowded living conditions. People living in close contact are at greater risk of spreading infection.
Poor sanitation. Poor sanitary conditions, inadequate access to water, and lack of hygiene, such as unclean faces or hands, help spread the disease.
Age. In areas where the disease is active, it's most common in children ages 4 to 6.
Sex. In some areas, women's rate of contracting the disease is two to six times higher than that of men. This may be attributed to the fact that women have more contact with children, who are the primary reservoir of infection.
Flies. People living in areas with problems controlling the fly population may be more susceptible to infection.
Complications for Trachoma:
One episode of trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis is easily treated with early detection and use of antibiotics. Repeated or secondary infections can lead to complications, including:
Scarring of the inner eyelid
Eyelid deformities, such as an inward-folding eyelid (entropion) or ingrown eyelashes (trichiasis), which can scratch the cornea
Corneal scarring or cloudiness
Partial or complete vision loss
Preventions for Trachoma
If you've been treated for trachoma with antibiotics or surgery, reinfection is always a concern. For your protection and for the safety of others, be sure that family members or others you live with are screened and, if necessary, treated for trachoma.
Trachoma can occur worldwide but is more common in Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and the Pacific Rim. When in regions where trachoma is common, take extra care in practicing good hygiene, which can help prevent infection.
Proper hygiene practices include:
Face washing and hand-washing. Keeping faces and hands clean may help break the cycle of reinfection.
Fly control. Reducing fly populations can help eliminate a source of transmission.
Proper waste management. Properly disposing of animal and human waste can reduce breeding grounds for flies.
Improved access to water. Having a fresh water source nearby can help improve hygienic conditions.
No trachoma vaccine is available, but prevention is possible. The WHO has developed a strategy to prevent trachoma, with the goal of eliminating it by 2020. While the goal hasn't been entirely achieved, trachoma cases have declined sharply. The strategy, titled SAFE, involves:
Surgery to treat advanced forms of trachoma
Antibiotics to treat and prevent the infection
Facial cleanliness
Environmental improvements, particularly in water, sanitation and fly control
Condition name:Transient ischemic attack (TIA)
Overview of Transient ischemic attack (TIA):
A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a short period of symptoms similar to those of a stroke. It's caused by a brief blockage of blood flow to the brain. A TIA usually lasts only a few minutes and doesn't cause long-term damage.
However, a TIA may be a warning. About 1 in 3 people who has a TIA will eventually have a stroke, with about half occurring within a year after the TIA.
Often called a ministroke, a TIA can serve as both a warning of a future stroke and a chance to prevent it.
There are no home remedies available for Transient ischemic attack (TIA) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Transient ischemic attack (TIA) :
Transient ischemic attacks usually last a few minutes. Most symptoms disappear within an hour. Rarely, symptoms may last up to 24 hours. The symptoms of a TIA are similar to those found early in a stroke. Symptoms happen suddenly and may include:
Weakness, numbness or paralysis in the face, arm or leg, typically on one side of the body.
Slurred speech or trouble understanding others.
Blindness in one or both eyes or double vision.
Dizziness or loss of balance or coordination.
You may have more than one TIA. Their symptoms may be similar or different depending on which area of the brain is involved.
Causes for Transient ischemic attack (TIA) :
The cause of a transient ischemic attack is similar to the cause of an ischemic stroke, which is the most common type of stroke. In an ischemic stroke, a blood clot blocks the blood supply to part of the brain. In a TIA, unlike a stroke, the blockage is brief and there is no permanent damage.
The blockage that occurs during a TIA often results from a buildup of cholesterol-containing fatty deposits called plaques in an artery. This is known as atherosclerosis. The buildup also may occur in an artery's branches that supply oxygen and nutrients to the brain.
Plaques can decrease the blood flow through an artery or lead to the development of a clot. A blood clot that moves from another part of the body, such as the heart, to an artery that supplies the brain also may cause a TIA.
Risk Factors for Transient ischemic attack (TIA):
Some risk factors of a transient ischemic attack and stroke can't be changed. Others you can control.
There are no Complications available for Transient ischemic attack (TIA) in the knowledge basePreventions for Transient ischemic attack (TIA)
Knowing your risk factors and living healthfully are the best things you can do to prevent a transient ischemic attack. A healthy lifestyle includes getting regular medical checkups. Also:
Don't smoke. Stopping smoking reduces your risk of a TIA or a stroke.
Limit cholesterol and fat. Cutting back on cholesterol and fat, especially saturated fat and trans fat, in your diet may reduce buildup of plaques in the arteries.
Eat plenty of fruits and vegetables. These foods contain nutrients such as potassium, folate and antioxidants, which may protect against a TIA or a stroke.
Limit sodium. If you have high blood pressure, avoid salty foods and don't add salt to food. These habits may help reduce your blood pressure. Limiting salt may not prevent high blood pressure, but excess sodium may increase blood pressure in some people.
Exercise regularly. If you have high blood pressure, regular exercise is one of the few ways you can lower your blood pressure without medicines.
Limit alcohol intake. Drink alcohol in moderation, if at all. The recommended limit is no more than one drink daily for women and two drinks a day for men.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight contributes to other risk factors, such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. Losing weight with diet and exercise may lower your blood pressure and improve your cholesterol levels.
Don't use illicit drugs. Illicit drugs such as cocaine are associated with an increased risk of a TIA or a stroke.
Control diabetes. You can manage diabetes and high blood pressure with diet, exercise, weight control and, when necessary, medicine.
Condition name:Transposition of the great arteries
Overview of Transposition of the great arteries:
Transposition of the great arteries (TGA) is a serious, rare heart problem in which the two main arteries leaving the heart are reversed. The condition is present at birth, which means it's a congenital heart defect.
There are no home remedies available for Transposition of the great arteries in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Transposition of the great arteries :
Transposition of the great arteries (TGA) may be seen in a baby before birth during a routine pregnancy ultrasound.
But some people with the congenitally corrected type of TGA may not have symptoms for many years.
Symptoms of transposition of the great arteries after birth include:
Blue or gray skin. Depending on the baby's skin color, these color changes may be harder or easier to see.
Weak pulse.
Lack of appetite.
Poor weight gain.
Skin color changes may not be noticed right away if a baby with TGA also has other heart problems. This is because the other heart problems may let some oxygen-rich blood move through the body. But as the baby becomes more active, less blood flows through the body. The blue or gray skin color then becomes more noticeable.
Causes for Transposition of the great arteries :
Transposition of the great arteries occurs during pregnancy when the baby's heart is developing. The cause is most often unknown.
To understand transposition of the great arteries, it may be helpful to know how the heart typically pumps blood.
Usually, the artery that carries blood from the heart to the lungs — called the pulmonary artery — connects to the heart's lower right chamber. That chamber is called the right ventricle.
Oxygen-rich blood is then pumped from the lungs to the heart's upper left chamber, also called the left atrium.
Blood then flows into the lower left chamber, known as the left ventricle.
The body's main artery, called the aorta, typically connects to the left ventricle. It carries oxygen-rich blood out of the heart to the rest of the body.
Risk Factors for Transposition of the great arteries:
Several things may increase a baby's risk of transposition of the great arteries, including:
A history of German measles (rubella) or another infection by a virus during pregnancy.
Drinking alcohol or taking certain medicines during pregnancy.
Smoking during pregnancy.
Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy.
Complications for Transposition of the great arteries:
Complications depend on the type of transposition of the great arteries (TGA).
Possible complications of complete transposition of the great arteries (D-TGA) may include:
Not enough oxygen to body tissues. Unless there's some mixing of oxygen-rich blood and oxygen-poor blood within the body, this complication causes death.
Heart failure. Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. It may develop over time because the right lower heart chamber is pumping under higher pressure than usual. The strain may make the muscle of the right lower chamber stiff or weak.
Possible complications of congenitally corrected transposition (L-TGA) may include:
Reduced heart pumping. In L-TGA, the right lower heart chamber pumps blood to the body. This work is different from what that chamber was designed to do. This can cause changes in how well the heart pumps blood.
Complete heart block. The changes in the structure of the heart due to L-TGA can change the electrical signals that tell the heart to beat. A complete heart block occurs if all signals are blocked.
Heart valve disease. In L-TGA, the valve between the upper and lower heart chambers — the tricuspid valve — may not close completely. Blood might move backward through the valve. This condition is called tricuspid valve regurgitation. It can eventually reduce the heart's ability to pump blood.
Preventions for Transposition of the great arteries
If you have a family history of heart problems present at birth, consider talking with a genetic counselor and a health care provider experienced in congenital heart defects before getting pregnant.
It's important to take steps to have a healthy pregnancy. Before becoming pregnant, get recommended immunizations and start taking a multivitamin with 400 micrograms of folic acid.
Condition name:Traveler's diarrhea
Overview of Traveler's diarrhea:
Traveler's diarrhea is a digestive tract disorder that commonly causes loose stools and stomach cramps. It's caused by eating contaminated food or drinking contaminated water. Fortunately, traveler's diarrhea usually isn't serious in most people — it's just unpleasant.
When you visit a place where the climate or sanitary practices are different from yours at home, you have an increased risk of developing traveler's diarrhea.
To reduce your risk of traveler's diarrhea, be careful about what you eat and drink while traveling. If you do develop traveler's diarrhea, chances are it will go away without treatment. However, it's a good idea to have doctor-approved medicines with you when you travel to high-risk areas. This way, you'll be prepared in case diarrhea gets severe or won't go away.
Home Remedies for Traveler's diarrhea:
If you do get traveler's diarrhea, avoid caffeine, alcohol and dairy products, which may worsen symptoms or increase fluid loss. But keep drinking fluids.
Drink canned fruit juices, weak tea, clear soup, decaffeinated soda or sports drinks to replace lost fluids and minerals. Later, as your diarrhea improves, try a diet of easy-to-eat complex carbohydrates, such as salted crackers, bland cereals, bananas, applesauce, dry toast or bread, rice, potatoes, and plain noodles.
You may return to your normal diet as you feel you can tolerate it. Add dairy products, caffeinated beverages and high-fiber foods cautiously.
Symptoms for Traveler's diarrhea :
Traveler's diarrhea may begin suddenly during your trip or shortly after you return home. Most people improve within 1 to 2 days without treatment and recover completely within a week. However, you can have multiple episodes of traveler's diarrhea during one trip.
The most common symptoms of traveler's diarrhea are:
Suddenly passing three or more looser watery stools a day.
An urgent need to pass stool.
Stomach cramps.
Nausea.
Vomiting.
Fever.
Sometimes, people experience moderate to severe dehydration, ongoing vomiting, a high fever, bloody stools, or severe pain in the belly or rectum. If you or your child experiences any of these symptoms or if the diarrhea lasts longer than a few days, it's time to see a healthcare professional.
Causes for Traveler's diarrhea :
It's possible that traveler's diarrhea may stem from the stress of traveling or a change in diet. But usually infectious agents — such as bacteria, viruses or parasites — are to blame. You typically develop traveler's diarrhea after ingesting food or water contaminated with organisms from feces.
So why aren't natives of high-risk countries affected in the same way? Often their bodies have become used to the bacteria and have developed immunity to them.
Risk Factors for Traveler's diarrhea:
Each year millions of international travelers experience traveler's diarrhea. High-risk destinations for traveler's diarrhea include areas of:
Central America.
South America.
Mexico.
Africa.
South Asia and Southeast Asia.
Traveling to Eastern Europe, South Africa, Central and East Asia, the Middle East, and a few Caribbean islands also poses some risk. However, your risk of traveler's diarrhea is generally low in Northern and Western Europe, Japan, Canada, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, and the United States.
Your chances of getting traveler's diarrhea are mostly determined by your destination. But certain groups of people have a greater risk of developing the condition. These include:
Young adults. The condition is slightly more common in young adult tourists. Though the reasons why aren't clear, it's possible that young adults lack acquired immunity. They may also be more adventurous than older people in their travels and dietary choices, or they may be less careful about avoiding contaminated foods.
People with weakened immune systems. A weakened immune system due to an underlying illness or immune-suppressing medicines such as corticosteroids increases risk of infections.
People with diabetes, inflammatory bowel disease, or severe kidney, liver or heart disease. These conditions can leave you more prone to infection or increase your risk of a more-severe infection.
People who take acid blockers or antacids. Acid in the stomach tends to destroy organisms, so a reduction in stomach acid may leave more opportunity for bacterial survival.
People who travel during certain seasons. The risk of traveler's diarrhea varies by season in certain parts of the world. For example, risk is highest in South Asia during the hot months just before the monsoons.
Complications for Traveler's diarrhea:
Because you lose vital fluids, salts and minerals during a bout with traveler's diarrhea, you may become dehydrated, especially during the summer months. Dehydration is especially dangerous for children, older adults and people with weakened immune systems.
Dehydration caused by diarrhea can cause serious complications, including organ damage, shock or coma. Symptoms of dehydration include a very dry mouth, intense thirst, little or no urination, dizziness, or extreme weakness.
There are no preventive measures available for Traveler's diarrhea in the knowledge baseCondition name:Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder)
Overview of Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder):
Trichotillomania (trik-o-til-o-MAY-nee-uh), also called hair-pulling disorder, is a mental health condition. It involves frequent, repeated and irresistible urges to pull out hair from your scalp, eyebrows or other areas of your body. You may try to resist the urges, but you can't stop. Trichotillomania is part of a group of conditions known as body-focused repetitive behaviors.
Pulling out hair from the scalp often leaves patchy bald spots. This can cause a lot of distress and can affect your work, school and social life. You may go to great lengths to hide the hair loss.
For some people, trichotillomania may be mild and can be managed. For others, the automatic or deliberate urge to pull out hair is too much to handle emotionally. Some treatment options may help reduce hair pulling or stop it entirely.
There are no home remedies available for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder) :
Symptoms of trichotillomania often include:
Repeatedly pulling out your hair, whether it's automatic or on purpose, usually from your scalp, eyebrows or eyelashes, but sometimes from other body areas. The sites may vary over time.
An increasing sense of tension before pulling out your hair, or when you try to resist pulling.
A sense of pleasure or relief after the hair is pulled out.
Hair loss that's easy to see, such as shortened hair or thinned or bald areas on the scalp or other areas of your body. This may include thin or missing eyelashes or eyebrows.
Pulling out specific types of hair, taking the same steps in the same way each time hair is pulled out or pulling out hair in certain patterns.
Biting, chewing or eating pulled-out hair.
Playing with pulled-out hair or rubbing it across your lips or face.
Repeatedly trying to stop pulling out your hair or trying to do it less often without success.
Experiencing a great deal of distress or problems at work, school or in social situations related to pulling out your hair.
Often trichotillomania also includes picking your skin, biting your nails or chewing your lips. Sometimes pulling out hairs from pets or dolls or from materials, such as clothes or blankets, may be a sign. Pulling out hair is usually done in private. An episode can last from a few seconds to hours. You may try to hide your condition from others.
With trichotillomania, pulling out hair can be:
Automatic. You may pull out your hair without even realizing that you're doing it. This might happen, for example, when you're bored, reading or watching TV.
Focused. You may pull out your hair on purpose to relieve tension or distress. You may develop specific rituals for pulling out hair, such as finding just the right hair. You may play with, bite or eat pulled-out hairs.
You may do both automatic and focused hair pulling, depending on the situation and your mood. Certain positions or activities may trigger pulling out hair, such as resting your head on your hand or brushing your hair.
Trichotillomania can be related to emotions, including:
Negative feelings. Pulling out hair may be a way of dealing with negative or uncomfortable feelings, such as stress, anxiety, tension, boredom, loneliness, extreme tiredness or frustration.
Positive feelings. You may find that pulling out hair feels satisfying and provides some relief. As a result, you may continue to pull out your hair to keep these positive feelings.
Trichotillomania is a long-term disorder. If not treated, symptoms may come and go for weeks, months or years at a time. Also, symptoms can vary in severity over time. For example, hormone changes during the menstrual period can worsen symptoms in some females. Rarely, pulling out hair ends within a few years of starting.
Causes for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder) :
The cause of trichotillomania is not clear. But like many complex disorders, trichotillomania likely results from a combination of genetic and learned factors.
Risk Factors for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder):
These factors tend to increase the risk of trichotillomania:
Family history. Genetics may play a role in the development of trichotillomania. You may be more likely to have the condition if you have a close relative with trichotillomania.
Health conditions. Some people may have hair or skin conditions that feel uncomfortable. This may focus their attention toward pulling hair or picking at their scalp.
Age. Trichotillomania usually develops just before or during the early teens — most often between the ages of 10 and 13 years. It's often a lifelong problem. Babies may pull out their hair, but this is usually mild and goes away on its own without treatment.
Other mental health conditions. Other conditions, such as depression, anxiety or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) may occur along with trichotillomania.
Stress. Severely stressful situations or events may trigger trichotillomania in some people.
Environment. Boredom, isolation and privacy often increase the likelihood of hair pulling.
Although far more women than men are treated for trichotillomania, this may be because women are more likely to seek medical advice. In early childhood, trichotillomania occurs just as often in boys and girls.
Complications for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder):
Although it may not seem serious, trichotillomania can have harmful effects on your life. Complications may include:
Emotional distress. You may feel frustrated, ashamed and embarrassed because of your condition and hair loss. You may feel that you don't have control over pulling out your hair. You may experience low self-esteem, depression, anxiety, and problems with alcohol or drugs.
Problems in your social life and with work. Hair loss may lead you to avoid social activities and school and job opportunities. You may wear wigs, style your hair to disguise bald patches or wear false eyelashes. You may avoid intimacy to hide your condition.
Skin and hair damage. Constantly pulling out hair can cause scarring, infections and other damage to the skin on your scalp or the area where hair is pulled out. This can permanently affect hair growth.
Hairballs. Eating your hair may lead to a large, matted hairball that stays in your digestive tract. Over a period of years, the hairball can cause weight loss, vomiting, an intestinal block and even death.
There are no preventive measures available for Trichotillomania (hair-pulling disorder) in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tricuspid valve disease
Overview of Tricuspid valve disease:
Tricuspid valve disease is a type of heart valve disease, also called valvular heart disease. The valve between the two right heart chambers, called the right atrium and the right ventricle, doesn't work as it should. The heart must work harder to pump blood to the lungs and the rest of the body.
Tricuspid valve disease often happens with other heart valve diseases.
There are different types of tricuspid valve disease. Symptoms and treatment depend on the specific valve condition. Treatment may include regular health checkups, medicines, or a procedure or surgery to fix or replace the valve.
There are no home remedies available for Tricuspid valve disease in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tricuspid valve disease :
Symptoms of tricuspid valve disease depend on the specific valve condition and how severe it is.
Tricuspid stenosis symptoms are often mild. Symptoms may include:
A fast, pounding heartbeat.
Fluttering feeling in the neck.
Fatigue.
People with tricuspid regurgitation may not have symptoms. But the condition may cause vague symptoms such as weakness, fatigue, and swelling in the legs or belly. Sometimes there is a pulsing feeling in the neck veins.
Tricuspid atresia and Ebstein anomaly symptoms often are seen at birth. They may include:
Blue or gray skin and lips. Depending on skin color, these changes may be easier or harder to see.
Difficulty breathing.
Slow growth and poor weight gain.
Tiring easily, especially during feedings.
Some types of tricuspid valve disease may cause symptoms of right-sided heart failure. Right-sided heart failure symptoms include:
Fatigue and weakness.
Shortness of breath.
Swelling in the legs, ankles and feet.
Swelling of the belly area, a condition called ascites.
Sudden weight gain from a buildup of fluid.
Causes for Tricuspid valve disease :
Causes of tricuspid valve disease depend on the specific condition.
To understand the causes of heart valve disease, it may be helpful to know how the heart works.
Four valves in the heart keep blood flowing in the right direction. These valves are:
Aortic valve.
Mitral valve.
Pulmonary valve.
Tricuspid valve.
Each valve has flaps, called leaflets or cusps. The flaps open and close once during each heartbeat. If a valve flap doesn't open or close properly, less blood moves out of the heart to the rest of the body.
Some people are born with tricuspid valve disease. In others, it happens later in life. Some causes of tricuspid valve disease later in life are:
Infection of the lining of the heart and heart valves, called infective endocarditis.
A complication of strep throat that's not treated, called rheumatic fever.
A connective tissue disorder called Marfan syndrome.
Carcinoid syndrome, caused by a rare tumor that releases certain chemicals.
Heart tumors or cancer that has spread to the right side of the heart.
Lupus and other autoimmune diseases.
Scarring from chest radiation or pacemaker placement.
An irregular heartbeat called atrial fibrillation (AFib).
High pressures in the lungs, called pulmonary hypertension.
Risk Factors for Tricuspid valve disease:
Risk factors for tricuspid valve disease depend on the specific condition.
Anything that causes swelling or irritation of the right side of the heart or changes in the structure of the valve can increase the risk of tricuspid valve disease.
There are no Complications available for Tricuspid valve disease in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Tricuspid valve disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Tricuspid valve regurgitation
Overview of Tricuspid valve regurgitation:
Tricuspid valve regurgitation is a type of heart valve disease. The valve between the two right heart chambers doesn't close as it should. Blood flows backward through the valve into the upper right chamber. If you have tricuspid valve regurgitation, less blood flows to the lungs. The heart has to work harder to pump blood.
The condition also may be called:
Tricuspid regurgitation.
Tricuspid insufficiency.
Some people are born with heart valve disease that leads to tricuspid regurgitation. This is called congenital heart valve disease. But tricuspid valve regurgitation also may occur later in life due to infections and other health conditions.
Mild tricuspid valve regurgitation may not cause symptoms or require treatment. If the condition is severe and causing symptoms, medicine or surgery may be needed.
Home Remedies for Tricuspid valve regurgitation:
If you have tricuspid regurgitation or any type of heart disease, your healthcare team may suggest making lifestyle changes. Try these steps:
Eat a heart-healthy diet. Eat a variety of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins. Avoid saturated fats and trans fats, sugar, and refined grains. Do not add salt to foods. If you have heart failure, your care team may tell you to limit fluids and salt.
Don't smoke or use tobacco. If you smoke or chew tobacco, quit. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease. Quitting is the best way to reduce the risk. If you need help quitting, talk to a healthcare professional.
Get regular exercise. Exercise can help improve heart health. As a general goal, aim for at least 30 minutes of moderate physical activity every day. Talk to your healthcare team before starting a new exercise routine.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight is a risk factor for heart disease. Talk with your care team to set realistic goals for weight.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your healthcare team.
Control blood pressure. Uncontrolled high blood pressure increases the risk of serious health problems.
Get a cholesterol test. Ask your care team how often you need a cholesterol test.
Manage diabetes. If you have diabetes, tight blood sugar control can help keep your heart healthy.
If you had your tricuspid valve replaced, ask your care team if you need to take antibiotics before some types of dental work, such as gum surgery. Antibiotics are sometimes recommended for some people with heart valve replacements. The antibiotics prevent germs from getting into the lining of the heart, a condition called infective endocarditis.
Symptoms for Tricuspid valve regurgitation :
Tricuspid valve regurgitation often doesn't cause symptoms until the condition is severe. It may be found when medical tests are done for another reason.
Symptoms of tricuspid valve regurgitation may include:
Extreme tiredness.
Shortness of breath with activity.
Feelings of a rapid or pounding heartbeat.
Pounding or pulsing feeling in the neck.
Swelling in the belly, legs or neck veins.
Causes for Tricuspid valve regurgitation :
To understand the causes of tricuspid valve regurgitation, it may help to know how the heart and heart valves typically work.
A typical heart has four chambers.
The two upper chambers, called the atria, receive blood.
The two lower chambers, called the ventricles, pump blood.
Four valves open and close to keep blood flowing in the correct direction. These heart valves are:
Aortic valve.
Mitral valve.
Tricuspid valve.
Pulmonary valve.
The tricuspid valve is between the heart's two right chambers. It has three thin flaps of tissue, called cusps or leaflets. These flaps open to let blood move from the upper right chamber to the lower right chamber. The valve flaps then close tightly so blood doesn't flow backward.
In tricuspid valve regurgitation, the tricuspid valve doesn't close tightly. So, blood leaks backward into the upper right heart chamber.
Causes of tricuspid valve regurgitation include:
A heart problem you're born with, also called a congenital heart defect. Some congenital heart defects affect the shape of the tricuspid valve and how it works. Tricuspid valve regurgitation in children is usually caused by a rare heart problem present at birth called Ebstein anomaly. In this condition, the tricuspid valve does not form correctly. It also is lower than usual in the lower right heart chamber.
Marfan syndrome. This condition is caused by changes in genes. It affects the fibers that support and anchor the organs and other structures in the body. It's occasionally associated with tricuspid valve regurgitation.
Rheumatic fever. This complication of strep throat can cause permanent damage to the heart and heart valves. When that happens, it's called rheumatic heart valve disease.
Infection of the lining of the heart and heart valves, also called infective endocarditis. This condition can damage the tricuspid valve. IV drug misuse increases the risk of infective endocarditis.
Carcinoid syndrome. This condition occurs when a rare cancerous tumor releases certain chemicals into the bloodstream. It can lead to carcinoid heart disease, which damages heart valves, most commonly the tricuspid and pulmonary valves.
Chest injury. An injury to the chest, such as from a car accident, may cause damage that leads to tricuspid valve regurgitation.
Pacemaker or other heart device wires. Tricuspid valve regurgitation might happen if wires from a pacemaker or defibrillator cross the tricuspid valve.
Heart biopsy, also called an endomyocardial biopsy. Heart valve damage can sometimes happen when a small amount of heart muscle tissue is removed for examination.
Radiation therapy. Rarely, radiation therapy for cancer that is focused on the chest area can cause tricuspid valve regurgitation.
Risk Factors for Tricuspid valve regurgitation:
A risk factor is something that makes you more likely to get a sickness or other health condition.
Things that can increase the risk of tricuspid valve regurgitation are:
An irregular heartbeat called atrial fibrillation (AFib).
Being born with a heart problem, called a congenital heart defect.
Damage to the heart muscle, including heart attack.
Heart failure.
High blood pressure in the lungs, also called pulmonary hypertension.
Infections of the heart and heart valves.
History of radiation therapy to the chest area.
Use of some weight-loss drugs and medicines to treat migraines and mental health disorders.
Complications for Tricuspid valve regurgitation:
Tricuspid valve regurgitation complications may depend on how severe the condition is. Possible complications of tricuspid regurgitation include:
An irregular and often rapid heartbeat, called atrial fibrillation (AFib). Some people with severe tricuspid valve regurgitation also have this common heart rhythm disorder. AFib has been linked to an increased risk of blood clots and stroke.
Heart failure. In severe tricuspid valve regurgitation, the heart has to work harder to pump enough blood to the body. The extra effort causes the lower right heart chamber to get bigger. Untreated, the heart muscle becomes weak. This can cause heart failure.
There are no preventive measures available for Tricuspid valve regurgitation in the knowledge baseCondition name:Trigeminal neuralgia
Overview of Trigeminal neuralgia:
Trigeminal neuralgia (try-JEM-ih-nul nu-RAL-juh) is a condition that causes intense pain similar to an electric shock on one side of the face. It affects the trigeminal nerve, which carries signals from the face to the brain. Even light touch from brushing your teeth or putting on makeup may trigger a jolt of pain. Trigeminal neuralgia can be long-lasting. It's known as a chronic pain condition.
People with trigeminal neuralgia may at first experience short, mild episodes of pain. But the condition can get worse, causing longer periods of pain that happen more often. It's more common in women and people older than 50.
But trigeminal neuralgia, also known as tic douloureux, doesn't mean living a life of pain. It usually can be managed with treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Trigeminal neuralgia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Trigeminal neuralgia :
Trigeminal neuralgia symptoms may include one or more of these patterns:
Episodes of intense shooting or jabbing pain that may feel like an electric shock.
Sudden episodes of pain or pain triggered by touching the face, chewing, speaking or brushing your teeth.
Episodes of pain lasting from a few seconds to several minutes.
Pain that occurs with facial spasms.
Episodes of pain lasting days, weeks, months or longer. Some people have periods when they experience no pain.
Pain in areas supplied by the trigeminal nerve. These areas include the cheek, jaw, teeth, gums or lips. Less often, the eye and forehead may be affected.
Pain on one side of the face at a time.
Pain focused in one spot. Or the pain may be spread in a wider pattern.
Pain that rarely occurs while sleeping.
Episodes of pain that become more frequent and intense over time.
Causes for Trigeminal neuralgia :
In trigeminal neuralgia, the trigeminal nerve's function is disrupted. Contact between a blood vessel and the trigeminal nerve at the base of the brain often causes the pain. The blood vessel may be an artery or a vein. This contact puts pressure on the nerve and doesn't allow it to function as usual.
But while compression by a blood vessel is a common cause, there are many other potential causes. Multiple sclerosis or a similar condition that damages the myelin sheath protecting certain nerves can cause trigeminal neuralgia. A tumor pressing against the trigeminal nerve also can cause the condition.
Some people may experience trigeminal neuralgia as a result of a stroke or facial trauma. An injury of the nerve due to surgery also can cause trigeminal neuralgia.
Risk Factors for Trigeminal neuralgia:
Research has found that some factors put people at higher risk of trigeminal neuralgia, including:
Sex. Women are more likely than men to experience trigeminal neuralgia.
Age. Trigeminal neuralgia is more common among people 50 and older.
Certain conditions. For example, hypertension is a risk factor for trigeminal neuralgia. In addition, people with multiple sclerosis are at higher risk of trigeminal neuralgia.
There are no Complications available for Trigeminal neuralgia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Trigeminal neuralgia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Trigger finger
Overview of Trigger finger:
Trigger finger makes a finger get stuck in a bent position. It may straighten suddenly with a snap. The fingers most often affected are the ring finger and the thumb, but the condition can affect any finger.
Trigger finger happens when the tendon that controls that finger can't glide smoothly in the sheath that surrounds it. This may occur if part of the tendon sheath becomes swollen or if a small lump forms on the tendon.
The condition is most common in women over the age of 50. You may be at higher risk of trigger finger if you have diabetes, low thyroid function or rheumatoid arthritis.
Treatment of trigger finger can include splinting, steroid injections or surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Trigger finger in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Trigger finger :
Symptoms of trigger finger may progress from mild to severe and include:
Finger stiffness, particularly in the morning.
A popping or clicking sensation as the finger moves.
Tenderness or a bump in the palm at the base of the affected finger.
Finger catching or locking in a bent position, which suddenly pops straight.
Finger locked in a bent position.
Trigger finger can affect any finger, including the thumb. More than one finger may be affected at a time, and both hands might be involved. Triggering is usually worse in the morning.
Causes for Trigger finger :
Tendons are tough cords that attach muscle to bone. Each tendon is surrounded by a protective sheath. Trigger finger occurs when the affected finger's tendon sheath becomes irritated and swollen. This makes it harder for the tendon to glide through the sheath.
In most people, there's no explanation for why this irritation and swelling begins.
The constant back-and-forth irritation can cause a small lump of tissue to form on the tendon. This lump is called a nodule. The nodule can make it even harder for the tendon to glide smoothly.
Risk Factors for Trigger finger:
Factors that put you at risk of developing trigger finger include:
Repeated gripping. Occupations and hobbies that involve repetitive hand use and prolonged gripping may increase the risk of trigger finger.
Certain health problems. People who have diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis are at higher risk of developing trigger finger.
Your sex. Trigger finger is more common in women.
Complications for Trigger finger:
Trigger finger can make it harder to type, button a shirt or insert a key into a lock. It also can affect your ability to grip a steering wheel or grasp tools.
There are no preventive measures available for Trigger finger in the knowledge baseCondition name:Truncus arteriosus
Overview of Truncus arteriosus:
Truncus arteriosus (TRUNG-kus ahr-teer-e-O-sus) is a rare heart problem present at birth. That means it's a congenital heart defect. In this condition, one large blood vessel leads out of the heart, instead of two.
Having only one large blood vessel means that oxygen-poor and oxygen-rich blood mix. This mixing reduces the amount of oxygen delivered to the body. It usually increases the amount of blood flow into the lungs too. The heart has to work harder to adjust for the changes in blood flow.
A person with truncus arteriosus also usually has a hole between the two lower heart chambers, called the ventricles. The hole is called a ventricular septal defect.
Another name for truncus arteriosus is common arterial trunk.
Truncus arteriosus is a life-threatening condition. A baby with the condition needs surgery to repair the heart problems and fix blood flow. Surgery is generally successful, especially if done before the baby is 1 month old.
Home Remedies for Truncus arteriosus:
If you or your child had truncus arteriosus, your provider may recommend taking a few steps to protect the heart.
Exercise restrictions. Some people with heart problems need to limit exercise and sports activities, especially competitive sports. Ask your health care provider which sports and types of exercise are safe for you or your child. People with Eisenmenger syndrome should avoid strenuous physical activity.
Antibiotics. Sometimes, heart problems can increase the risk of infection in the lining of the heart or heart valves. This infection is called infective endocarditis. Antibiotics may be recommended before dental procedures and other surgical procedures to prevent infections. It's also important to have good oral hygiene and regular dental checkups.
Pregnancy. If you've had truncus arteriosus repair surgery and want to become pregnant, talk to your health care provider first about the possible risks and complications. It's best to be checked by providers with training in adult congenital heart disease and high-risk pregnancies. Together, you and your care team can discuss and plan for any special care needed during pregnancy.
Depending on the level of lung damage that occurred before truncus arteriosus surgery, pregnancy might or might not be recommended. Pregnancy is considered very high risk for those with Eisenmenger syndrome and is not recommended.
Symptoms for Truncus arteriosus :
Symptoms of truncus arteriosus usually occur in the first few days of life. They include:
Blue or gray skin due to low oxygen levels.
Excessive sleepiness.
Poor feeding.
Poor growth.
Pounding heartbeat.
Fast breathing.
Shortness of breath.
Causes for Truncus arteriosus :
Truncus arteriosus occurs as a baby's heart forms during pregnancy. There's often no clear cause. Genetics and environmental factors may play a role.
Risk Factors for Truncus arteriosus:
The exact cause of truncus arteriosus is unknown. But some things might increase the risk of a heart problem at birth. Risk factors include:
Viral illness during pregnancy. Some infections can hurt a developing baby. For example, having German measles during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. German measles also is called rubella.
Poorly controlled diabetes during pregnancy. Careful control of your blood sugar before and during pregnancy can reduce the risk of heart problems in your baby. If you have diabetes, work with your provider to be sure blood sugar is well controlled before getting pregnant.
Certain medicines taken during pregnancy. Some medicines can cause heart problems and other health conditions in a baby. Tell your provider about all the medicines you take, including those bought without a prescription.
Certain chromosomal disorders. An extra or irregular chromosome increases the risk of truncus arteriosus. Examples are DiGeorge syndrome, also called 22q11.2 deletion syndrome, and velocardiofacial syndrome.
Smoking during pregnancy. If you smoke, quit. Smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of heart problems in your baby.
Alcohol use. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy increases the risk of heart problems and other health conditions in a baby.
Obesity. Obesity increases the risk of giving birth to a baby with a heart problem.
Complications for Truncus arteriosus:
Truncus arteriosus causes severe problems with how blood flows through the lungs, heart and rest of the body.
Complications of truncus arteriosus in babies include:
Breathing problems. Extra fluid and blood into the lungs can make it difficult to breathe.
High blood pressure in the lungs, also called pulmonary hypertension. This condition causes the blood vessels in the lungs to narrow. It becomes hard for the heart to pump blood into the lungs.
Enlargement of the heart. Pulmonary hypertension and increased blood flow strain the heart. The heart must work harder to pump blood. This causes the heart muscle to grow larger. The enlarged heart gradually weakens.
Heart failure. In this condition, the heart cannot supply the body with enough blood. Too little oxygen and too much strain on the heart can lead to heart failure.
Even with successful surgical repair of the heart during infancy, other complications can occur later in life. These complications include:
Pulmonary hypertension that gets worse.
Backward flow of blood through a heart valve, called regurgitation.
Heart rhythm problems, also called arrhythmias.
Common symptoms of these complications include:
Dizziness.
Feeling of rapid, fluttering heartbeats.
Feeling very tired.
Shortness of breath when exercising.
Swelling of the belly, legs or feet.
Preventions for Truncus arteriosus
Because the cause is unclear, it may not be possible to prevent truncus arteriosus. Getting good prenatal care is important. If you have a family history of heart problems present at birth, consider talking with a genetic counselor and a heart doctor, called a cardiologist, before getting pregnant.
If you decide to get pregnant, taking these steps can help keep your baby healthy:
Get recommended vaccinations. Some infections can be harmful to a developing baby. For example, having German measles — also called rubella —during pregnancy can cause problems in a baby's heart development. A blood test done before pregnancy can determine if you're immune to rubella. A vaccine is available for those who aren't immune.
Talk to your provider about your medicines. Check with your health care provider before taking any medicines if you're pregnant or thinking about becoming pregnant. Many drugs aren't recommended for use during pregnancy because they can harm a developing baby.
Take a folic acid supplement. Take a multivitamin with folic acid. Taking 400 micrograms of folic acid daily has been shown to reduce brain and spinal cord problems in babies. It may help reduce the risk of heart problems present at birth too.
Control diabetes. If you have diabetes, ask your health care provider how to best manage the disease during pregnancy.
Condition name:Tuberous sclerosis
Overview of Tuberous sclerosis:
Tuberous sclerosis (TOO-bur-us skluh-ROH-sis), also called tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), is an uncommon genetic disorder that causes tumors to develop in many parts of the body. These tumors are not cancer. Noncancerous tumors, also called benign tumors, are overgrowths of cells and tissue that are not expected. Symptoms vary widely, depending on where the growths develop and how big they get.
Tuberous sclerosis is often first found during infancy or childhood. Sometimes tuberous sclerosis can have such mild symptoms that the condition isn't diagnosed until adulthood, or it's not diagnosed at all. Sometimes tuberous sclerosis causes serious disabilities.
There is no cure for tuberous sclerosis, and the course of the disorder and how bad it gets can't be predicted. But treatments are available to manage symptoms.
There are no home remedies available for Tuberous sclerosis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Tuberous sclerosis :
Tuberous sclerosis symptoms are caused by noncancerous growths in parts of the body, most commonly in the skin, brain, eyes, kidneys, heart and lungs. But any part of the body can be affected. Symptoms can range from mild to severe, depending on the size or location of the growths.
Although symptoms are different for each person with tuberous sclerosis, they can include:
Skin changes. Skin changes are most common. These include patches of lighter skin and small areas of thickened, smooth or bumpy skin. On the forehead, skin can have raised, discolored areas. Small soft bumps under or around the nails may occur. Growths on the face that start in childhood and look like acne are common.
Seizures. Growths in the brain may be linked with seizures. A seizure is often the first symptom of tuberous sclerosis. In small children, a common type of seizure called infantile spasm involves stiffening of the arms and legs and arching the back and head.
Problems in thinking, reasoning and learning. Tuberous sclerosis can result in developmental delays. Sometimes it limits the ability to think, reason and learn. Mental health conditions, such as autism spectrum disorder or attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), also can occur.
Behavior problems. Common behavior problems may include hyperactivity, self-injury or aggression, or issues with social and emotional adjustment.
Kidney problems. Growths on the kidneys are common, and more growths may develop with age.
Heart issues. Growths in the heart, if present, are usually largest at birth and shrink as a child gets older.
Lung problems. Growths that develop in the lungs may cause coughing or trouble breathing, especially with physical activity or exercise. These lung tumors occur more often in females than in males.
Eye problems. Growths can appear as white patches on the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye called the retina. These growths usually don't interfere with vision.
Dental changes. Teeth may have pits in the surface. Small growths may appear on the gums, inside of the cheeks and on the tongue.
Causes for Tuberous sclerosis :
Tuberous sclerosis is a genetic disorder caused by gene changes — sometimes called mutations — in either the TSC1 or the TSC2 gene. These genes are thought to prevent cells from growing too fast or in an out-of-control way. Changes in either of these genes can cause cells to grow and divide more than needed. This leads to multiple growths throughout the body. These growths are considered noncancerous tumors.
Risk Factors for Tuberous sclerosis:
Tuberous sclerosis can be the result of either:
A random cell division error. About two-thirds of people who have tuberous sclerosis have a new change in either the TSC1 or the TSC2 gene linked with tuberous sclerosis. Most people do not have a family history of tuberous sclerosis.
A gene change passed down in families. About one-third of people who have tuberous sclerosis get a changed TSC1 or TSC2 gene from a parent who has the disorder.
If you have tuberous sclerosis, you have up to a 50% chance of passing the changed gene and the disorder to your biological children, which means children related to you by blood may inherit that gene. How bad the disorder gets may vary. A parent with tuberous sclerosis may have a child who has a milder or a more severe form of the disorder.
Complications for Tuberous sclerosis:
Depending on where the noncancerous tumors grow and their size, they can cause severe or life-threatening complications. Here are some examples:
Too much fluid in and around the brain. One type of noncancerous brain growth, subependymal giant cell astrocytoma, can grow along the lining of the fluid-filled spaces in the brain, called ventricles. The tumor can block the flow of fluid that helps protect the brain, causing fluid to build up around the brain. This buildup is called hydrocephalus. Symptoms can include a head size that is larger than expected, nausea, headaches and behavior changes.
Heart complications. Growths in the heart, usually in infants, can block blood flow or cause problems with heart rhythm.
Kidney damage. Growths in the kidney can be large and cause potentially serious — even life-threatening — kidney problems. Growths in the kidney can cause high blood pressure or bleeding or lead to kidney failure. Rarely, kidney growths can become cancerous.
Lung failure. Growths in the lungs damage the lung tissue and can lead to collapsed lungs. The growths interfere with how well the lungs can provide oxygen to the rest of the body.
Increased risk of cancerous tumors. Tuberous sclerosis is linked with an increased risk of developing cancerous tumors in the kidneys and brain.
Vision damage. Growths in the eye can interfere with vision if they block too much of the retina, though this is rare.
There are no preventive measures available for Tuberous sclerosis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Type 1 diabetes
Overview of Type 1 diabetes:
Type 1 diabetes, once known as juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes, is a chronic condition. In this condition, the pancreas makes little or no insulin. Insulin is a hormone the body uses to allow sugar (glucose) to enter cells to produce energy.
Different factors, such as genetics and some viruses, may cause type 1 diabetes. Although type 1 diabetes usually appears during childhood or adolescence, it can develop in adults.
Even after a lot of research, type 1 diabetes has no cure. Treatment is directed toward managing the amount of sugar in the blood using insulin, diet and lifestyle to prevent complications.
Home Remedies for Type 1 diabetes:
Careful management of type 1 diabetes can lower your risk of serious â€” even life-threatening â€” complications. Consider these tips:
Make a commitment to manage your diabetes. Take your medications as recommended. Learn all you can about type 1 diabetes. Make healthy eating and physical activity part of your daily routine. Establish a relationship with a diabetes educator. Ask your health care team for help.
Identify yourself. Wear a tag or bracelet that says you are living with diabetes. Keep a glucagon kit nearby in case of a low blood sugar emergency. Make sure your friends and loved ones know how to use the kit.
Schedule a yearly physical exam and regular eye exams. Your regular diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace yearly physicals or routine eye exams. During the physical, your provider will look for any diabetes-related complications. Your provider will also look for other medical problems. Your eye care specialist will check for signs of eye complications, such as retina damage, cataracts and glaucoma.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken the immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your provider will likely recommend the pneumonia vaccine, too. They may also recommend getting the COVID-19 vaccine.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't had it before and you're an adult between the ages of 19 and 59 years with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. The CDC recommends vaccination as soon as possible after diagnosis with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. If you are age 60 or older and have diabetes and haven't received the vaccine, talk to your provider about whether it's right for you.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water. Dry them gently, especially between the toes. Moisturize your feet with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness or swelling. Consult your provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that doesn't heal.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can help control high blood pressure and cholesterol. Medication also may be needed.
If you smoke or use other forms of tobacco, ask your provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of diabetes complications. These include heart attack, stroke, nerve damage and kidney disease. Talk to your provider about ways to stop smoking or to stop using other types of tobacco.
If you drink alcohol, do so responsibly. Alcohol can cause either high or low blood sugar. It depends on how much you drink and if you eat at the same time. If you choose to drink, do so only in moderation and always with a meal. Check your blood sugar levels before going to sleep.
Take stress seriously. The hormones the body produces when you're under long-term stress may prevent insulin from working properly. This can stress and frustrate you even more. Take a step back and set some limits. Prioritize your tasks. Learn ways to relax. Get plenty of sleep.
Symptoms for Type 1 diabetes :
Type 1 diabetes symptoms can appear suddenly and may include:
Feeling more thirsty than usual
Urinating a lot
Bed-wetting in children who have never wet the bed during the night
Feeling very hungry
Losing weight without trying
Feeling irritable or having other mood changes
Feeling tired and weak
Having blurry vision
Causes for Type 1 diabetes :
The exact cause of type 1 diabetes is unknown. Usually, the body's own immune system — which normally fights harmful bacteria and viruses — destroys the insulin-producing (islet) cells in the pancreas. Other possible causes include:
Genetics
Exposure to viruses and other environmental factors
Risk Factors for Type 1 diabetes:
Some factors that can raise your risk for type 1 diabetes include:
Family history. Anyone with a parent or sibling with type 1 diabetes has a slightly higher risk of developing the condition.
Genetics. Having certain genes increases the risk of developing type 1 diabetes.
Geography. The number of people who have type 1 diabetes tends to be higher as you travel away from the equator.
Age. Type 1 diabetes can appear at any age, but it appears at two noticeable peaks. The first peak occurs in children between 4 and 7 years old. The second is in children between 10 and 14 years old.
Complications for Type 1 diabetes:
Over time, type 1 diabetes complications can affect major organs in the body. These organs include the heart, blood vessels, nerves, eyes and kidneys. Having a normal blood sugar level can lower the risk of many complications.
Diabetes complications can lead to disabilities or even threaten your life.
Heart and blood vessel disease. Diabetes increases the risk of some problems with the heart and blood vessels. These include coronary artery disease with chest pain (angina), heart attack, stroke, narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis) and high blood pressure.
Nerve damage (neuropathy). Too much sugar in the blood can injure the walls of the tiny blood vessels (capillaries) that feed the nerves. This is especially true in the legs. This can cause tingling, numbness, burning or pain. This usually begins at the tips of the toes or fingers and spreads upward. Poorly controlled blood sugar could cause you to lose all sense of feeling in the affected limbs over time.
Damage to the nerves that affect the digestive system can cause problems with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation. For men, erectile dysfunction may be an issue.
Kidney damage (nephropathy). The kidneys have millions of tiny blood vessels that keep waste from entering the blood. Diabetes can damage this system. Severe damage can lead to kidney failure or end-stage kidney disease that can't be reversed. End-stage kidney disease needs to be treated with mechanical filtering of the kidneys (dialysis) or a kidney transplant.
Eye damage. Diabetes can damage the blood vessels in the retina (part of the eye that senses light) (diabetic retinopathy). This could cause blindness. Diabetes also increases the risk of other serious vision conditions, such as cataracts and glaucoma.
Foot damage. Nerve damage in the feet or poor blood flow to the feet increases the risk of some foot complications. Left untreated, cuts and blisters can become serious infections. These infections may need to be treated with toe, foot or leg removal (amputation).
Skin and mouth conditions. Diabetes may leave you more prone to infections of the skin and mouth. These include bacterial and fungal infections. Gum disease and dry mouth also are more likely.
Pregnancy complications. High blood sugar levels can be dangerous for both the parent and the baby. The risk of miscarriage, stillbirth and birth defects increases when diabetes isn't well-controlled. For the parent, diabetes increases the risk of diabetic ketoacidosis, diabetic eye problems (retinopathy), pregnancy-induced high blood pressure and preeclampsia.
Preventions for Type 1 diabetes
There's no known way to prevent type 1 diabetes. But researchers are working on preventing the disease or further damage of the islet cells in people who are newly diagnosed.
Ask your provider if you might be eligible for one of these clinical trials. It is important to carefully weigh the risks and benefits of any treatment available in a trial.
Condition name:Type 1 diabetes in children
Overview of Type 1 diabetes in children:
Type 1 diabetes in children is a condition in which your child's body no longer produces an important hormone (insulin). Your child needs insulin to survive, so the missing insulin needs to be replaced with injections or with an insulin pump. Type 1 diabetes in children used to be known as juvenile diabetes or insulin-dependent diabetes.
The diagnosis of type 1 diabetes in children can be overwhelming, especially in the beginning. Suddenly you and your child — depending on your child's age — must learn how to give injections, count carbohydrates and monitor blood sugar.
There's no cure for type 1 diabetes in children, but it can be managed. Advances in blood sugar monitoring and insulin delivery have improved blood sugar management and quality of life for children with type 1 diabetes.
Home Remedies for Type 1 diabetes in children:
Following a diabetes treatment plan requires 24-hour care and significant lifestyle changes. Careful management of type 1 diabetes helps reduce your child's risk of serious complications.
As your child gets older:
Encourage him or her to take an increasingly active role in diabetes management
Stress the importance of lifelong diabetes care
Teach your child how to test his or her blood sugar and inject insulin
Help your child make wise food choices
Encourage your child to remain physically active
Foster a relationship between your child and his or her diabetes treatment team
Make sure your child wears a medical identification tag
The habits you teach your child today will help him or her enjoy an active and healthy life with type 1 diabetes.
School and diabetes
You'll need to work with your child's day care provider or school nurse and teachers to make sure they know the signs and symptoms of high and low blood sugar levels. The school nurse might need to administer insulin or check your child's blood sugar levels.
Federal law protects children with diabetes, and schools must make reasonable accommodations to ensure that all children get a proper education.
Ask your health care provider
Contact your child's health care provider, certified diabetes care and education specialist, or registered dietitian between appointments if you have questions.
Symptoms for Type 1 diabetes in children :
The signs and symptoms of type 1 diabetes in children usually develop quickly, and may include:
Increased thirst
Frequent urination, possibly bed-wetting in a toilet-trained child
Extreme hunger
Unintentional weight loss
Fatigue
Irritability or behavior changes
Fruity-smelling breath
Causes for Type 1 diabetes in children :
The exact cause of type 1 diabetes is unknown. But in most people with type 1 diabetes, the body's immune system — which normally fights harmful bacteria and viruses — mistakenly destroys insulin-producing (islet) cells in the pancreas. Genetics and environmental factors appear to play a role in this process.
Once the islet cells of the pancreas are destroyed, your child produces little or no insulin. Insulin performs the critical job of moving sugar (glucose) from the bloodstream to the body's cells for energy.
Sugar enters the bloodstream when food is digested. Without enough insulin, sugar builds up in your child's bloodstream. This can cause life-threatening complications if left untreated.
Risk Factors for Type 1 diabetes in children:
Type 1 diabetes most often occurs in children but can occur at any age. Risk factors for type 1 diabetes in children include:
Family history. Anyone with a parent or siblings with type 1 diabetes has a slightly increased risk of developing the condition.
Genetics. Certain genes indicate an increased risk of type 1 diabetes.
Race. In the United States, type 1 diabetes is more common among white children of non-Hispanic descent than among children of other races.
Certain viruses. Exposure to various viruses may trigger the autoimmune destruction of the islet cells.
Complications for Type 1 diabetes in children:
Type 1 diabetes can affect the major organs in your body. Keeping your blood sugar level close to normal most of the time can dramatically reduce the risk of many complications.
Complications can include:
Heart and blood vessel disease. Diabetes increases your child's risk of developing conditions such as narrowed blood vessels, high blood pressure, heart disease and stroke later in life.
Nerve damage. Excess sugar can injure the walls of the tiny blood vessels that nourish your child's nerves. This can cause tingling, numbness, burning or pain. Nerve damage usually happens gradually over a long period of time.
Kidney damage. Diabetes can damage the numerous tiny blood vessel clusters in the kidneys that filter waste from your child's blood.
Eye damage. Diabetes can damage the blood vessels of the eye's retina, which may lead to vision problems.
Osteoporosis. Diabetes may decrease bone mineral density, increasing your child's risk of osteoporosis as an adult.
You can help your child prevent diabetes complications by:
Working with your child to maintain good blood sugar control as much as possible
Teaching your child the importance of eating a healthy diet and participating in regular physical activity
Scheduling regular visits with your child's diabetes health care professional
Children with type 1 diabetes are at risk of other autoimmune disorders, such as thyroid disease and celiac disease. Your child's health care provider may recommend tests for these conditions.
Preventions for Type 1 diabetes in children
There's currently no sure way to prevent type 1 diabetes, but this is a very active area of research.
The antibodies associated with type 1 diabetes in children who have a high risk of the disorder can be detected months or even years before the first symptoms of type 1 diabetes appear. Researchers are working on:
Preventing or delaying the start of type 1 diabetes in people who have a high risk of the disease.
Preventing further destruction of the islet cells in people who are newly diagnosed.
Condition name:Type 2 diabetes
Overview of Type 2 diabetes:
Type 2 diabetes is a condition that happens because of a problem in the way the body regulates and uses sugar as a fuel. That sugar also is called glucose. This long-term condition results in too much sugar circulating in the blood. Eventually, high blood sugar levels can lead to disorders of the circulatory, nervous and immune systems.
In type 2 diabetes, there are primarily two problems. The pancreas does not produce enough insulin — a hormone that regulates the movement of sugar into the cells. And cells respond poorly to insulin and take in less sugar.
Type 2 diabetes used to be known as adult-onset diabetes, but both type 1 and type 2 diabetes can begin during childhood and adulthood. Type 2 is more common in older adults. But the increase in the number of children with obesity has led to more cases of type 2 diabetes in younger people.
There's no cure for type 2 diabetes. Losing weight, eating well and exercising can help manage the disease. If diet and exercise aren't enough to control blood sugar, diabetes medications or insulin therapy may be recommended.
Home Remedies for Type 2 diabetes:
Careful management of type 2 diabetes can reduce the risk of serious â€” even life-threatening â€” complications. Consider these tips:
Commit to managing your diabetes. Learn all you can about type 2 diabetes. Make healthy eating and physical activity part of your daily routine.
Work with your team. Establish a relationship with a certified diabetes education specialist, and ask your diabetes treatment team for help when you need it.
Identify yourself. Wear a necklace or bracelet that says you are living with diabetes, especially if you take insulin or other blood sugar-lowering medicine.
Schedule a yearly physical exam and regular eye exams. Your diabetes checkups aren't meant to replace regular physicals or routine eye exams.
Keep your vaccinations up to date. High blood sugar can weaken your immune system. Get a flu shot every year. Your health care provider also may recommend the pneumonia vaccine. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) also recommends the hepatitis B vaccination if you haven't previously received this vaccine and you're 19 to 59 years old. Talk to your health care provider about other vaccinations you may need.
Take care of your teeth. Diabetes may leave you prone to more-serious gum infections. Brush and floss your teeth regularly and schedule recommended dental exams. Contact your dentist right away if your gums bleed or look red or swollen.
Pay attention to your feet. Wash your feet daily in lukewarm water, dry them gently, especially between the toes, and moisturize them with lotion. Check your feet every day for blisters, cuts, sores, redness and swelling. Contact your health care provider if you have a sore or other foot problem that isn't healing.
Keep your blood pressure and cholesterol under control. Eating healthy foods and exercising regularly can go a long way toward controlling high blood pressure and cholesterol. Take medication as prescribed.
If you smoke or use other types of tobacco, ask your health care provider to help you quit. Smoking increases your risk of diabetes complications. Talk to your health care provider about ways to stop using tobacco.
Use alcohol sparingly. Depending on the type of drink, alcohol may lower or raise blood sugar levels. If you choose to drink alcohol, only do so with a meal. The recommendation is no more than one drink daily for women and no more than two drinks daily for men. Check your blood sugar frequently after drinking alcohol.
Make healthy sleep a priority. Many people with type 2 diabetes have sleep problems. And not getting enough sleep may make it harder to keep blood sugar levels in a healthy range. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to your health care provider about treatment options.
More Information
Caffeine: Does it affect blood sugar?
Symptoms for Type 2 diabetes :
Symptoms of type 2 diabetes often develop slowly. In fact, you can be living with type 2 diabetes for years and not know it. When symptoms are present, they may include:
Increased thirst.
Frequent urination.
Increased hunger.
Unintended weight loss.
Fatigue.
Blurred vision.
Slow-healing sores.
Frequent infections.
Numbness or tingling in the hands or feet.
Areas of darkened skin, usually in the armpits and neck.
Causes for Type 2 diabetes :
Type 2 diabetes is mainly the result of two problems:
Cells in muscle, fat and the liver become resistant to insulin As a result, the cells don't take in enough sugar.
The pancreas can't make enough insulin to keep blood sugar levels within a healthy range.
Exactly why this happens is not known. Being overweight and inactive are key contributing factors.
Risk Factors for Type 2 diabetes:
Factors that may increase the risk of type 2 diabetes include:
Weight. Being overweight or obese is a main risk.
Fat distribution. Storing fat mainly in the abdomen — rather than the hips and thighs — indicates a greater risk. The risk of type 2 diabetes is higher in men with a waist circumference above 40 inches (101.6 centimeters) and in women with a waist measurement above 35 inches (88.9 centimeters).
Inactivity. The less active a person is, the greater the risk. Physical activity helps control weight, uses up glucose as energy and makes cells more sensitive to insulin.
Family history. An individual's risk of type 2 diabetes increases if a parent or sibling has type 2 diabetes.
Race and ethnicity. Although it's unclear why, people of certain races and ethnicities — including Black, Hispanic, Native American and Asian people, and Pacific Islanders — are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than white people are.
Blood lipid levels. An increased risk is associated with low levels of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol — the "good" cholesterol — and high levels of triglycerides.
Age. The risk of type 2 diabetes increases with age, especially after age 35.
Prediabetes. Prediabetes is a condition in which the blood sugar level is higher than normal, but not high enough to be classified as diabetes. Left untreated, prediabetes often progresses to type 2 diabetes.
Pregnancy-related risks. The risk of developing type 2 diabetes is higher in people who had gestational diabetes when they were pregnant and in those who gave birth to a baby weighing more than 9 pounds (4 kilograms).
Polycystic ovary syndrome. Having polycystic ovary syndrome — a condition characterized by irregular menstrual periods, excess hair growth and obesity — increases the risk of diabetes.
Complications for Type 2 diabetes:
Type 2 diabetes affects many major organs, including the heart, blood vessels, nerves, eyes and kidneys. Also, factors that increase the risk of diabetes are risk factors for other serious diseases. Managing diabetes and controlling blood sugar can lower the risk for these complications and other medical conditions, including:
Heart and blood vessel disease. Diabetes is associated with an increased risk of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure and narrowing of blood vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis.
Nerve damage in limbs. This condition is called neuropathy. High blood sugar over time can damage or destroy nerves. That may result in tingling, numbness, burning, pain or eventual loss of feeling that usually begins at the tips of the toes or fingers and gradually spreads upward.
Other nerve damage. Damage to nerves of the heart can contribute to irregular heart rhythms. Nerve damage in the digestive system can cause problems with nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation. Nerve damage also may cause erectile dysfunction.
Kidney disease. Diabetes may lead to chronic kidney disease or end-stage kidney disease that can't be reversed. That may require dialysis or a kidney transplant.
Eye damage. Diabetes increases the risk of serious eye diseases, such as cataracts and glaucoma, and may damage the blood vessels of the retina, potentially leading to blindness.
Skin conditions. Diabetes may raise the risk of some skin problems, including bacterial and fungal infections.
Slow healing. Left untreated, cuts and blisters can become serious infections, which may heal poorly. Severe damage might require toe, foot or leg amputation.
Hearing impairment. Hearing problems are more common in people with diabetes.
Sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea is common in people living with type 2 diabetes. Obesity may be the main contributing factor to both conditions.
Dementia. Type 2 diabetes seems to increase the risk of Alzheimer's disease and other disorders that cause dementia. Poor control of blood sugar is linked to a more rapid decline in memory and other thinking skills.
Preventions for Type 2 diabetes
Healthy lifestyle choices can help prevent type 2 diabetes. If you've received a diagnosis of prediabetes, lifestyle changes may slow or stop the progression to diabetes.
A healthy lifestyle includes:
Eating healthy foods. Choose foods lower in fat and calories and higher in fiber. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Getting active. Aim for 150 or more minutes a week of moderate to vigorous aerobic activity, such as a brisk walk, bicycling, running or swimming.
Losing weight. If you are overweight, losing a modest amount of weight and keeping it off may delay the progression from prediabetes to type 2 diabetes. If you have prediabetes, losing 7% to 10% of your body weight may reduce the risk of diabetes.
Avoiding long stretches of inactivity. Sitting still for long periods of time can increase the risk of type 2 diabetes. Try to get up every 30 minutes and move around for at least a few minutes.
For people with prediabetes, metformin (Fortamet, Glumetza, others), a diabetes medication, may be prescribed to reduce the risk of type 2 diabetes. This is usually prescribed for older adults who are obese and unable to lower blood sugar levels with lifestyle changes.
Condition name:Type 2 diabetes in children
Overview of Type 2 diabetes in children:
Type 2 diabetes in children is a chronic disease that affects the way your child's body processes sugar (glucose) for fuel. Without treatment, the disorder causes sugar to build up in the bloodstream, which can lead to serious long-term consequences.
Type 2 diabetes occurs more commonly in adults. In fact, it used to be called adult-onset diabetes. But the increasing number of children with obesity has led to more cases of type 2 diabetes in younger people.
There's plenty you can do to help manage or prevent type 2 diabetes in your child. Encourage your child to eat healthy foods, get plenty of physical activity and maintain a healthy weight. If healthy eating and exercise aren't enough to control type 2 diabetes, oral medication or insulin treatment may be needed.
Home Remedies for Type 2 diabetes in children:
Helping your child follow the diabetes treatment plan takes round-the-clock commitment. But careful management of type 2 diabetes can reduce your child's risk of serious complications.
As your child gets older:
Encourage your child to take an increasingly active role in diabetes management
Stress the importance of lifelong diabetes care
Teach your child how to test blood sugar levels and to take medication and inject insulin if needed
Help your child make healthy food choices
Encourage your child to remain physically active and limit electronic screen time
Foster a relationship between your child and the diabetes treatment team
Make sure your child wears a medical identification tag
School and diabetes
You'll need to work with your child's school nurse and teachers to make sure they know the symptoms of high and low blood sugar levels. The school nurse might need to administer insulin or check your child's blood sugar.
Federal law protects children with diabetes, and schools must make reasonable accommodations to ensure that all children get a proper education.
When to contact your diabetes care team
Contact your child's health care provider, certified diabetes care and education specialist, or registered dietitian between appointments if your child's blood sugar is consistently out of the target range your health care provider recommended. Also contact the care team if you're not sure what to do in a certain situation.
Symptoms for Type 2 diabetes in children :
Type 2 diabetes in children may develop so gradually that there are no noticeable symptoms. Sometimes, the disorder is diagnosed during a routine check-up.
Some children might experience these signs and symptoms as a result of too much sugar in their bloodstreams:
Increased thirst
Frequent urination
Increased hunger
Fatigue
Blurry vision
Darkened areas of skin, most often around the neck or in the armpits and groin
Unintended weight loss, although this is less common in children with type 2 diabetes than in children with type 1 diabetes
Frequent infections
Causes for Type 2 diabetes in children :
The exact cause of type 2 diabetes is unknown. But family history and genetics appear to play an important role. What is clear is that children with type 2 diabetes can't process sugar (glucose) properly.
Most of the sugar in the body comes from food. When food is digested, sugar enters the bloodstream. Insulin allows sugar to enter the cells — and lowers the amount of sugar in the blood.
Insulin is produced by a gland located behind the stomach called the pancreas. The pancreas sends insulin to the blood when food is eaten. When the blood sugar level starts to drop, the pancreas slows down the secretion of insulin into the blood.
When your child has type 2 diabetes, this process doesn't work as well. As a result, instead of fueling cells, sugar builds up in your child's bloodstream. This can happen because:
The pancreas may not make enough insulin
The cells become resistant to insulin and don't allow as much sugar in
Risk Factors for Type 2 diabetes in children:
Researchers don't fully understand why some children develop type 2 diabetes and others don't, even if they have similar risk factors. However, it's clear that certain factors increase the risk, including:
Weight. Being overweight is a strong risk factor for type 2 diabetes in children. The more fatty tissue children have — especially inside and between the muscle and skin around the abdomen — the more resistant their bodies' cells become to insulin.
Inactivity. The less active children are, the greater their risk of type 2 diabetes.
Diet. Eating red meat and processed meat and drinking sugar-sweetened beverages is associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes.
Family history. Children's risk of type 2 diabetes increases if they have a parent or sibling with the disease.
Race or ethnicity. Although it's unclear why, certain people — including Black, Hispanic, American Indian and Asian American people — are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes.
Age and sex. Many children develop type 2 diabetes in their early teens, but it may occur at any age. Adolescent girls are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than are adolescent boys.
Maternal gestational diabetes. Children born to women who had gestational diabetes during pregnancy have a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Low birth weight or preterm birth. Having a low birth weight is associated with a higher risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Babies born prematurely — before 39 to 42 weeks' gestation —have a greater risk of type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes in children is often associated with metabolic syndrome and polycystic ovarian syndrome.
Complications for Type 2 diabetes in children:
Type 2 diabetes can affect nearly every organ in your child's body, including the blood vessels, nerves, eyes and kidneys. The long-term complications of type 2 diabetes develop gradually over many years. Eventually, diabetes complications may be severe or even life-threatening.
Complications of type 2 diabetes are related to high blood sugar and include:
High cholesterol
Heart and blood vessel disease
Stroke
Nerve damage
Kidney disease
Eye disease, including blindness
Keeping your child's blood sugar level close to the standard range most of the time can dramatically reduce the risk of these complications. You can help your child prevent diabetes complications by:
Working with your child to maintain good blood sugar control as much as possible
Teaching your child the importance of healthy eating and participating in regular physical activity
Scheduling regular visits with your child's diabetes treatment team
Preventions for Type 2 diabetes in children
Healthy-lifestyle choices can help prevent type 2 diabetes in children. Encourage your child to:
Eat healthy foods. Offer your child foods low in fat and calories. Focus on fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Strive for variety to prevent boredom.
Get more physical activity. Encourage your child to become active. Sign up your child for a sports team or dance lessons.
Better yet, make it a family affair. The lifestyle choices that can help prevent type 2 diabetes in children can do the same for adults.
Condition name:Ulcerative colitis
Overview of Ulcerative colitis:
Ulcerative colitis (UL-sur-uh-tiv koe-LIE-tis) is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes inflammation and ulcers (sores) in your digestive tract. Ulcerative colitis affects the innermost lining of your large intestine, also called the colon, and rectum. In most people, symptoms usually develop over time, rather than suddenly.
Ulcerative colitis can be draining and can sometimes lead to life-threatening complications. While it has no known cure, there are several new treatments that can greatly reduce signs and symptoms of the disease and bring about long-term remission.
Home Remedies for Ulcerative colitis:
Sometimes you may feel helpless when facing ulcerative colitis. But changes in your diet and lifestyle may help control your symptoms and lengthen the time between flare-ups.
There's no firm evidence that what you eat actually causes inflammatory bowel disease. But certain foods and beverages can aggravate your signs and symptoms, especially during a flare-up.
It can be helpful to keep a food diary to keep track of what you're eating, as well as how you feel. If you discover that some foods are causing your symptoms to flare, you can try eliminating them.
Here are some general dietary suggestions that may help you manage your condition:
Limit dairy products. Many people with inflammatory bowel disease find that problems such as diarrhea, abdominal pain and gas improve by limiting or eliminating dairy products. You may be lactose intolerant â€” that is, your body can't digest the milk sugar (lactose) in dairy foods. Using an enzyme product such as Lactaid may help as well.
Eat small meals. You may find that you feel better eating five or six small meals a day rather than two or three larger ones.
Drink plenty of liquids. Try to drink plenty of liquids daily. Water is best. Alcohol and beverages that contain caffeine stimulate your intestines and can make diarrhea worse, while carbonated drinks frequently produce gas.
Talk to a dietitian. If you begin to lose weight or your diet has become very limited, talk to a registered dietitian.
Stress
Although stress doesn't cause inflammatory bowel disease, it can make your signs and symptoms worse and may trigger flare-ups.
To help control stress, try:
Exercise. Even mild exercise can help reduce stress, relieve depression and correct bowel function. Talk to your health care provider about an exercise plan that's right for you.
Biofeedback. This stress-reduction technique helps you reduce muscle tension and slow your heart rate with the help of a feedback machine. The goal is to help you enter a relaxed state so that you can cope more easily with stress.
Regular relaxation and breathing exercises. An effective way to cope with stress is to perform relaxation and breathing exercises. You can take classes in yoga and meditation or practice at home using books, CDs or DVDs.
Symptoms for Ulcerative colitis :
Ulcerative colitis symptoms can vary, depending on the severity of inflammation and where it occurs. Signs and symptoms may include:
Diarrhea, often with blood or pus
Rectal bleeding — passing small amount of blood with stool
Abdominal pain and cramping
Rectal pain
Urgency to defecate
Inability to defecate despite urgency
Weight loss
Fatigue
Fever
In children, failure to grow
Most people with ulcerative colitis have mild to moderate symptoms. The course of ulcerative colitis may vary, with some people having long periods when it goes away. This is called remission.
Causes for Ulcerative colitis :
The exact cause of ulcerative colitis remains unknown. Previously, diet and stress were suspected. However, researchers now know that these factors may aggravate but don't cause ulcerative colitis.
One possible cause is an immune system malfunction. When your immune system tries to fight off an invading virus or bacterium, an irregular immune response causes the immune system to attack the cells in the digestive tract, too.
Heredity also seems to play a role in that ulcerative colitis is more common in people who have family members with the disease. However, most people with ulcerative colitis don't have this family history.
Risk Factors for Ulcerative colitis:
Ulcerative colitis affects about the same number of women and men. Risk factors may include:
Age. Ulcerative colitis usually begins before the age of 30, but it can occur at any age. Some people may not develop the disease until after age 60.
Race or ethnicity. Although white people have the highest risk of the disease, it can occur in any race. If you're of Ashkenazi Jewish descent, your risk is even higher.
Family history. You're at higher risk if you have a close relative, such as a parent, sibling or child, with the disease.
Complications for Ulcerative colitis:
Possible complications of ulcerative colitis include:
Severe bleeding
Severe dehydration
A rapidly swelling colon, also called a toxic megacolon
A hole in the colon, also called a perforated colon
Increased risk of blood clots in veins and arteries
Inflammation of the skin, joints and eyes
An increased risk of colon cancer
Bone loss, also called osteoporosis
There are no preventive measures available for Ulcerative colitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ulnar wrist pain
Overview of Ulnar wrist pain:
Ulnar wrist pain is pain on the side of your wrist opposite the thumb. The ulna is one of two forearm bones. Wrist pain can vary, depending on the cause. Ulnar wrist pain can be linked to many different types of injuries, including problems with the bones, tendons and ligaments.
There are no home remedies available for Ulnar wrist pain in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ulnar wrist pain :
Symptoms of ulnar wrist pain may include:
Pain that worsens when gripping something or twisting the wrist.
Loss of strength when trying to grip firmly.
Trouble moving the wrist or rotating the forearm.
A popping or clicking sound when moving the wrist.
Causes for Ulnar wrist pain :
Because so many factors can lead to wrist pain, it can be difficult to diagnose. Common causes of ulnar wrist pain include:
Sudden impacts. A common cause of wrist injuries is a fall onto an outstretched hand. This can cause sprains, strains and even fractures.
Repetitive stress. Any activity that involves wrist motion done over and over can inflame the tissues around the joint or cause stress fractures. The risk of injury is increased when you perform the movement for hours on end without a break.
Arthritis. This can cause swelling and stiffness in the wrist. Both osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis can cause wrist pain.
Risk Factors for Ulnar wrist pain:
Sports participation, repetitive work, and certain diseases and conditions can put you at risk for ulnar wrist pain.
Sports participation. Wrist injuries are common in many sports, both those that involve impact and those that put repetitive stress on the wrist. These can include football, golf, tennis and pickleball.
Repetitive work. People who regularly use a computer mouse or keyboard are at risk. Carpenters and plumbers may develop ulnar wrist pain because they often use tools in small spaces, causing awkward positioning of the wrist.
Other diseases and conditions. People with generally loose ligaments, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis or gout also are at risk.
There are no Complications available for Ulnar wrist pain in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ulnar wrist pain in the knowledge baseCondition name:Undescended testicle
Overview of Undescended testicle:
A testicle that doesn't move down into its proper place in the scrotum before birth is called an undescended testicle. It's also known as cryptorchidism (krip-TOR-kih-diz-um). Most often, it's just one testicle that doesn't descend into the scrotum, which is the bag of skin that hangs below the penis. But sometimes both testicles are affected.
An undescended testicle is more common in premature babies than it is in full-term infants. An undescended testicle often moves down on its own within a few months after the baby is born. If your baby has an undescended testicle that doesn't correct itself, surgery can be done to move the testicle into the scrotum.
Home Remedies for Undescended testicle:
Even after surgery, it's important to check your baby's testicles to make sure they develop properly. You can check the position of the testicles during diaper changes and baths.
When your child is about to reach puberty, the two of you can talk about what physical changes to expect. During the talk, you can explain how your child can check the testicles without your help. Your child should do a self-exam each month. This is a key skill to help find lumps and other possible symptoms of tumors early. Make an appointment with your child's doctor if your child notices any unusual changes in the testicles.
Symptoms for Undescended testicle :
Not seeing or feeling a testicle in the scrotum is the main symptom of an undescended testicle.
Testicles form in an unborn baby's lower belly. During the last few months of pregnancy, the testicles typically move down from the stomach area. They move through a tubelike passage in the groin, called the inguinal canal, and descend into the scrotum. With an undescended testicle, that process stops or is delayed.
Causes for Undescended testicle :
The exact cause of an undescended testicle isn't known. Genes, the health of the baby's mother and other factors might have a combined effect. Together they may disrupt the hormones, physical changes and nerve activity that play roles in how the testicles develop.
Risk Factors for Undescended testicle:
Things that might raise the risk of an undescended testicle in a newborn include:
Premature birth or low birth weight.
Family history of undescended testicles.
Health conditions in the baby, such as cerebral palsy or a problem with the wall of the abdomen.
The mother having diabetes before or during pregnancy.
Alcohol use during pregnancy.
Smoking cigarettes or exposure to secondhand smoke during pregnancy.
Exposure to some pesticides during pregnancy.
Complications for Undescended testicle:
The testicles need to be slightly cooler than regular body temperature to develop and work well. The scrotum provides this cooler place. Complications of a testicle not being located where it's supposed to be include:
Testicular cancer. Men who've had an undescended testicle have a higher risk of testicular cancer. This disease often begins in testicle cells that make immature sperm. It's not clear why these cells turn into cancer.
The risk is greater in men who've had undescended testicles located in the stomach area than in men who've had undescended testicles in the groin. The risk also is higher when both testicles are affected. Surgery to correct an undescended testicle might lower the risk of testicular cancer. But the cancer risk doesn't go away completely.
Fertility problems. These problems make it harder to get a partner pregnant. They're more likely to happen in men who've had an undescended testicle. Fertility problems might be worse if an undescended testicle goes without treatment for a long time.
Other health conditions linked with an undescended testicle include:
Testicular torsion. This is the twisting of the cord that brings blood to the scrotum. It's a painful problem that cuts off blood to the testicle. Without quick treatment, the testicle might become so damaged that it needs to be removed with surgery.
Trauma. If a testicle is in the groin, it might get damaged from pressure against the pubic bone.
Inguinal hernia. A part of the intestines can push into the groin through a weak spot in the muscles of the stomach area. The bulge this causes can be painful.
There are no preventive measures available for Undescended testicle in the knowledge baseCondition name:Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma
Overview of Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma:
Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (UPS) is a rare type of cancer that begins mostly in the soft tissues of the body. Soft tissues connect, support and surround other body structures.
UPS usually occurs in the arms or legs. Less often it can happen in the area behind the abdominal organs (retroperitoneum).
The name undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma comes from the way the cancer cells appear under the microscope. Undifferentiated means the cells don't look like the body tissues in which they develop. The cancer is called pleomorphic (plee-o-MOR-fik) because the cells grow in multiple shapes and sizes.
Treatment for UPS depends on the location of the cancer, but often involves surgery, radiation and drug treatments.
UPS used to be called malignant fibrous histiocytoma.
There are no home remedies available for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma :
Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma symptoms depend on where the cancer occurs. It most often happens in the arms and legs, but it can happen anywhere in the body.
Signs and symptoms may include:
Growing lump or area of swelling.
If it grows very large, there may be pain, tingling and numbness.
If it occurs in an arm or leg, there may be swelling in the hand or foot of an affected limb.
If it occurs in the abdomen, there may be pain, loss of appetite and constipation.
Fever.
Weight loss.
Causes for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma :
It's not clear what causes undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma.
Doctors know this cancer begins when a cell develops changes in its DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cell to multiply rapidly, creating a mass of abnormal cells (tumor). The cells can invade and destroy nearby healthy tissue. In time, the cancer cells can break away and spread (metastasize) to other parts of the body, such as the lungs and bones.
Risk Factors for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma:
Factors that may increase the risk of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma include:
Older age. This cancer tends to occur in adults older than 50, though it can occur at any age.
Previous radiation therapy. Rarely, this cancer can develop in an area of the body that was previously treated with radiation therapy.
Most people who develop undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma have no known risk factors, and many people who have risk factors never develop the cancer.
There are no Complications available for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ureteral cancer
Overview of Ureteral cancer:
Cancer of the ureter (ureteral cancer) is an abnormal growth of cells on the inside lining of the tubes (ureters) that connect your kidneys to your bladder. Ureters are part of the urinary tract, and they carry urine produced by the kidneys to the bladder.
Ureteral cancer is uncommon. It occurs most often in older adults and in people who have previously been treated for bladder cancer.
Ureteral cancer is closely related to bladder cancer. The cells that line the ureters are the same type of cells that line the inside of the bladder. People diagnosed with ureteral cancer have a greatly increased risk of bladder cancer, so your doctor will recommend tests to look for signs of bladder cancer.
Treatment for ureteral cancer typically involves surgery. In certain situations, chemotherapy or immunotherapy may be recommended.
There are no home remedies available for Ureteral cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ureteral cancer :
Signs and symptoms of ureteral cancer include:
Blood in urine
Back pain
Pain when urinating
Losing weight without trying
Fatigue
Causes for Ureteral cancer :
It's not clear what causes ureteral cancer.
Ureteral cancer happens when cells on the inside lining of the ureter develop changes (mutations) in their DNA. A cell's DNA contains the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply rapidly and to continue living beyond their typical life cycle. The result is a growing mass of abnormal cells that can grow to block the ureter or spread to other areas of the body.
Risk Factors for Ureteral cancer:
Factors that can increase the risk of ureteral cancer include:
Increasing age. The risk of ureteral cancer increases with age. Most people diagnosed with this cancer are in their 70s and 80s.
Previous bladder or kidney cancer. People who have been diagnosed with bladder cancer or kidney cancer have an increased risk of ureteral cancer.
Smoking. Smoking tobacco increases the risk of ureteral cancer, as well as other urinary tract cancers, including kidney cancer and bladder cancer.
Family history of cancer. Lynch syndrome, also called hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), increases the risk of colon cancer and other cancers, including ureteral cancer. If you have a strong family history of cancer, discuss it with your doctor. Together you may decide whether to consider genetic testing for Lynch syndrome and other inherited cancer syndromes.
There are no Complications available for Ureteral cancer in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Ureteral cancer in the knowledge baseCondition name:Ureteral obstruction
Overview of Ureteral obstruction:
A ureteral obstruction is a blockage in one or both of the tubes (ureters) that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Ureteral obstruction can be cured. However, if it's not treated, symptoms can quickly move from mild — pain, fever and infection — to severe — loss of kidney function, sepsis and death.
Ureteral obstruction is fairly common. Because it's treatable, severe complications are rare.
There are no home remedies available for Ureteral obstruction in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ureteral obstruction :
Ureteral obstruction might have no signs or symptoms. Signs and symptoms depend on where the obstruction occurs, whether it's partial or complete, how quickly it develops, and whether it affects one or both kidneys.
Signs and symptoms might include:
Pain.
Changes in how much urine you produce (urine output).
Difficulty urinating.
Blood in the urine.
Urinary tract infections.
High blood pressure (hypertension).
Causes for Ureteral obstruction :
Different types of ureteral obstruction have different causes, some of them present at birth (congenital). They include:
A second (duplicated) ureter. This common condition, which is congenital, causes two ureters to form on the same kidney. The second ureter can be fully or only partially developed. If either ureter doesn't work properly, urine can back up into the kidney and cause damage.
A blockage (obstruction) where the ureter connects to the kidney or bladder. This prevents urine flow. A blockage where the ureter and kidney meet (ureteropelvic junction) may cause the kidney to swell and eventually stop working. This condition can be congenital or can develop with typical childhood growth, result from an injury or scarring, or in rare cases, develop from a tumor. A blockage where the ureter and bladder meet (ureterovesical junction) may cause urine to back up into the kidneys.
Ureterocele. If a ureter is too narrow and doesn't allow urine to flow completely, a tiny bulge in the ureter (ureterocele) may develop. When a ureterocele develops, it's usually in the section of the ureter closest to the bladder. This can block urine flow and cause urine to back up into the kidney, possibly leading to kidney damage.
Retroperitoneal fibrosis. This rare disorder occurs when fibrous tissue grows in the area behind the abdomen. The fibers may grow as the result of cancer tumors or from taking certain medicines used to treat migraines. The fibers encircle and block the ureters, causing urine to back up into the kidneys.
Risk Factors for Ureteral obstruction:
Certain conditions present at birth can increase the risk of having ureteral obstruction. Having kidney stones or bladder stones also might increase the risk that one of the ureters becomes blocked. Blood clots, tumors, certain tissue growth and enlarged lymph nodes might also be factors in developing this condition.
Complications for Ureteral obstruction:
Ureteral obstruction can lead to urinary tract infections and kidney damage, which can be irreversible.
There are no preventive measures available for Ureteral obstruction in the knowledge baseCondition name:Urethral stricture
Overview of Urethral stricture:
A urethral (u-REE-thrul) stricture involves scarring that narrows the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra. As a result of a stricture, less urine comes out of the bladder. This can cause problems in the urinary tract, such as infection.
There are no home remedies available for Urethral stricture in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Urethral stricture :
Symptoms of urethral stricture can include:
Weak urine stream.
Bladder not emptying all the way.
Spraying urine.
Finding it hard or painful to pass urine.
Passing urine more often or feeling the need to pass urine more often.
Urinary tract infection.
Causes for Urethral stricture :
Scar tissue, which can narrow the urethra, can be due to:
A medical procedure that involves putting a tool, such as an endoscope, into the urethra.
A tube that's put into the urethra to drain the bladder, called a catheter.
Trauma or injury to the urethra or pelvis.
An enlarged prostate or having had surgery to remove or reduce an enlarged prostate gland.
Cancer of the urethra or prostate.
Sexually transmitted infections.
Radiation therapy.
A skin condition that causes patchy, discolored, thin skin that often affects the genital area, called lichen sclerosus.
Urethral stricture is much more common in males than in females. Often the cause is unknown.
There are no Risk Factors available for Urethral stricture in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Urethral stricture in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Urethral stricture in the knowledge baseCondition name:Urinary incontinence
Overview of Urinary incontinence:
Urinary incontinence — the loss of bladder control — is a common and often embarrassing problem. The severity ranges from occasionally leaking urine when you cough or sneeze to having an urge to urinate that's so sudden and strong you don't get to a toilet in time.
Though it occurs more often as people get older, urinary incontinence isn't an inevitable consequence of aging. If urinary incontinence affects your daily activities, don't hesitate to see your doctor. For most people, simple lifestyle and dietary changes or medical care can treat symptoms of urinary incontinence.
Home Remedies for Urinary incontinence:
Problems with urine leakage may require you to take extra care to prevent skin irritation:
Use a washcloth to clean yourself.
Allow your skin to air-dry.
Avoid frequent washing and douching because these can overwhelm your body's natural defenses against bladder infections.
Consider using a barrier cream, such as petroleum jelly or cocoa butter, to protect your skin from urine.
Ask your doctor about special cleansers made to remove urine that may be less drying than other products.
If you have urge incontinence or nighttime incontinence, make the toilet more convenient:
Move any rugs or furniture you might trip over or collide with on the way to the toilet.
Use a night light to illuminate your path and reduce your risk of falling.
If you have functional incontinence, you might:
Keep a bedside commode in your bedroom
Install an elevated toilet seat
Widen an existing bathroom doorway
More Information
Urinary incontinence care at Mayo Clinic
Bladder control: Lifestyle strategies
Symptoms for Urinary incontinence :
Many people experience occasional, minor leaks of urine. Others may lose small to moderate amounts of urine more frequently.
Types of urinary incontinence include:
Stress incontinence. Urine leaks when you exert pressure on your bladder by coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting something heavy.
Urge incontinence. You have a sudden, intense urge to urinate followed by an involuntary loss of urine. You may need to urinate often, including throughout the night. Urge incontinence may be caused by a minor condition, such as infection, or a more severe condition such as a neurological disorder or diabetes.
Overflow incontinence. You experience frequent or constant dribbling of urine due to a bladder that doesn't empty completely.
Functional incontinence. A physical or mental impairment keeps you from making it to the toilet in time. For example, if you have severe arthritis, you may not be able to unbutton your pants quickly enough.
Mixed incontinence. You experience more than one type of urinary incontinence — most often this refers to a combination of stress incontinence and urge incontinence.
Causes for Urinary incontinence :
Urinary incontinence can be caused by everyday habits, underlying medical conditions or physical problems. A thorough evaluation by your doctor can help determine what's behind your incontinence.
Risk Factors for Urinary incontinence:
Factors that increase your risk of developing urinary incontinence include:
Gender. Women are more likely to have stress incontinence. Pregnancy, childbirth, menopause and normal female anatomy account for this difference. However, men who have prostate gland problems are at increased risk of urge and overflow incontinence.
Age. As you get older, the muscles in your bladder and urethra lose some of their strength. Changes with age reduce how much your bladder can hold and increase the chances of involuntary urine release.
Being overweight. Extra weight increases pressure on your bladder and surrounding muscles, which weakens them and allows urine to leak out when you cough or sneeze.
Smoking. Tobacco use may increase your risk of urinary incontinence.
Family history. If a close family member has urinary incontinence, especially urge incontinence, your risk of developing the condition is higher.
Some diseases. Neurological disease or diabetes may increase your risk of incontinence.
Complications for Urinary incontinence:
Complications of chronic urinary incontinence include:
Skin problems. Rashes, skin infections and sores can develop from constantly wet skin.
Urinary tract infections. Incontinence increases your risk of repeated urinary tract infections.
Impacts on your personal life. Urinary incontinence can affect your social, work and personal relationships.
Preventions for Urinary incontinence
Urinary incontinence isn't always preventable. However, to help decrease your risk:
Maintain a healthy weight
Practice pelvic floor exercises
Avoid bladder irritants, such as caffeine, alcohol and acidic foods
Eat more fiber, which can prevent constipation, a cause of urinary incontinence
Don't smoke, or seek help to quit if you're a smoker
Condition name:Urinary tract infection (UTI)
Overview of Urinary tract infection (UTI):
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in any part of the urinary system. The urinary system includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract — the bladder and the urethra.
Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than are men. If an infection is limited to the bladder, it can be painful and annoying. But serious health problems can result if a UTI spreads to the kidneys.
Health care providers often treat urinary tract infections with antibiotics. You can also take steps to lower the chance of getting a UTI in the first place.
Home Remedies for Urinary tract infection (UTI):
Urinary tract infections can be painful, but you can take steps to ease discomfort until antibiotics treat the infection. Follow these tips:
Drink plenty of water. Water helps to dilute your urine and flush out bacteria.
Avoid drinks that may irritate your bladder. Avoid coffee, alcohol, and soft drinks containing citrus juices or caffeine until the infection has cleared. They can irritate your bladder and tend to increase the need to urinate.
Use a heating pad. Apply a warm, but not hot, heating pad to your belly to help with bladder pressure or discomfort.
Symptoms for Urinary tract infection (UTI) :
UTIs don't always cause symptoms. When they do, they may include:
A strong urge to urinate that doesn't go away
A burning feeling when urinating
Urinating often, and passing small amounts of urine
Urine that looks cloudy
Urine that appears red, bright pink or cola-colored — signs of blood in the urine
Strong-smelling urine
Pelvic pain, in women — especially in the center of the pelvis and around the area of the pubic bone
In older adults, UTIs may be overlooked or mistaken for other conditions.
Causes for Urinary tract infection (UTI) :
UTIs typically occur when bacteria enter the urinary tract through the urethra and begin to spread in the bladder. The urinary system is designed to keep out bacteria. But the defenses sometimes fail. When that happens, bacteria may take hold and grow into a full-blown infection in the urinary tract.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra.
Infection of the bladder. This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli). E. coli is a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. But sometimes other bacteria are the cause.
Having sex also may lead to a bladder infection, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop one. All women are at risk of bladder infections because of their anatomy. In women, the urethra is close to the anus. And the urethral opening is close to the bladder. This makes it easier for bacteria around the anus to enter the urethra and to travel to the bladder.
Infection of the urethra. This type of UTI can happen when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. An infection of the urethra can also be caused by sexually transmitted infections. They include herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma. This can happen because women's urethras are close to the vagina.
Risk Factors for Urinary tract infection (UTI):
UTIs are common in women. Many women experience more than one UTI during their lifetimes.
Risk factors for UTIs that are specific to women include:
Female anatomy. Women have a shorter urethra than men do. As a result, there's less distance for bacteria to travel to reach the bladder.
Sexual activity. Being sexually active tends to lead to more UTIs. Having a new sexual partner also increases risk.
Certain types of birth control. Using diaphragms for birth control may increase the risk of UTIs. Using spermicidal agents also can increase risk.
Menopause. After menopause, a decline in circulating estrogen causes changes in the urinary tract. The changes can increase the risk of UTIs.
Other risk factors for UTIs include:
Urinary tract problems. Babies born with problems with their urinary tracts may have trouble urinating. Urine can back up in the urethra, which can cause UTIs.
Blockages in the urinary tract. Kidney stones or an enlarged prostate can trap urine in the bladder. As a result, risk of UTIs is higher.
A suppressed immune system. Diabetes and other diseases can impair the immune system — the body's defense against germs. This can increase the risk of UTIs.
Catheter use. People who can't urinate on their own often must use a tube, called a catheter, to urinate. Using a catheter increases the risk of UTIs. Catheters may be used by people who are in the hospital. They may also be used by people who have neurological problems that make it difficult to control urination or who are paralyzed.
A recent urinary procedure. Urinary surgery or an exam of your urinary tract that involves medical instruments can both increase the risk of developing a UTI.
Complications for Urinary tract infection (UTI):
When treated promptly and properly, lower urinary tract infections rarely lead to complications. But left untreated, UTIs can cause serious health problems.
Complications of a UTI may include:
Repeated infections, which means you have two or more UTIs within six months or three or more within a year. Women are especially prone to having repeated infections.
Permanent kidney damage from a kidney infection due to an untreated UTI.
Delivering a low birth weight or premature infant when a UTI occurs during pregnancy.
A narrowed urethra in men from having repeated infections of the urethra.
Sepsis, a potentially life-threatening complication of an infection. This is a risk especially if the infection travels up the urinary tract to the kidneys.
Preventions for Urinary tract infection (UTI)
These steps may help lower the risk of UTIs:
Drink plenty of liquids, especially water. Drinking water helps dilute the urine. That leads to urinating more often — allowing bacteria to be flushed from the urinary tract before an infection can begin.
Try cranberry juice. Studies that look into whether cranberry juice prevents UTIs aren't final. However, drinking cranberry juice is likely not harmful.
Wipe from front to back. Do this after urinating and after a bowel movement. It helps prevent the spread of bacteria from the anus to the vagina and urethra.
Empty your bladder soon after having sex. Also drink a full glass of water to help flush bacteria.
Avoid potentially irritating feminine products. Using them in the genital area can irritate the urethra. These products include deodorant sprays, douches and powders.
Change your birth control method. Diaphragms, unlubricated condoms or condoms treated with spermicide can contribute to bacterial growth.
Condition name:Urine color
Overview of Urine color:
Regular urine color ranges from clear to pale yellow. But certain things can change the color.
Foods such as beets, blackberries and fava beans can turn urine pink or red, for example. And some medicines can give urine vivid tones, such as orange or greenish-blue.
An unusual urine color also can be a sign of a health problem. For instance, some urinary tract infections can turn urine milky white. Kidney stones, some cancers and other diseases sometimes make urine look red due to blood.
Home Remedies for Urine color:
When you're dehydrated, your urine becomes darker in color. If this happens, it might mean you need more fluids. Make sure you drink enough fluids daily to stay hydrated and keep yourself healthy.
Symptoms for Urine color :
The regular color of urine varies. It depends on how much water you drink. Fluids dilute the yellow pigments in urine. So the more you drink, the clearer your urine looks. When you drink less, the yellow color becomes stronger.
But urine can turn colors far beyond what's typical, including:
Red.
Blue.
Green.
Orange.
Dark brown.
Cloudy white.
Causes for Urine color :
A change in urine color is often caused by certain medicines, foods or food dyes. Sometimes it's caused by a health problem.
Here are some unusual urine colors along with things that can cause them. Keep in mind that colors can look slightly different to different people. For instance, what looks red to you might look orange to someone else.
Risk Factors for Urine color:
A change in urine color that isn't due to foods or medicine could be caused by a health problem. Some things that put you at risk of health problems that can affect urine color are:
Age. Tumors of the bladder and kidney, which can cause blood in the urine, are more common in older people. Men older than 50 sometimes have blood in the urine due to an enlarged prostate gland.
Family history. If any of your blood relatives, such as a parent, sibling or grandparent, have kidney disease or kidney stones, you're more likely to get them too. Both kidney disease and kidney stones can cause blood in the urine.
Hard exercise. Distance runners are most at risk. But anyone who exercises hard can have blood in the urine.
There are no Complications available for Urine color in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Urine color in the knowledge baseCondition name:Uterine fibroids
Overview of Uterine fibroids:
Uterine fibroids are common growths of the uterus. They often appear during the years you're usually able to get pregnant and give birth. Uterine fibroids are not cancer, and they almost never turn into cancer. They aren't linked with a higher risk of other types of cancer in the uterus either. They're also called leiomyomas (lie-o-my-O-muhs) or myomas.
Fibroids vary in number and size. You can have a single fibroid or more than one. Some of these growths are too small to see with the eyes. Others can grow to the size of a grapefruit or larger. A fibroid that gets very big can distort the inside and the outside of the uterus. In extreme cases, some fibroids grow large enough to fill the pelvis or stomach area. They can make a person look pregnant.
Many people have uterine fibroids sometime during their lives. But you might not know you have them, because they often cause no symptoms. Your health care professional may just happen to find fibroids during a pelvic exam or pregnancy ultrasound.
There are no home remedies available for Uterine fibroids in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Uterine fibroids :
Many people who have uterine fibroids don't have any symptoms. In those who do, symptoms can be influenced by the location, size and number of fibroids.
The most common symptoms of uterine fibroids include:
Heavy menstrual bleeding or painful periods.
Longer or more frequent periods.
Pelvic pressure or pain.
Frequent urination or trouble urinating.
Growing stomach area.
Constipation.
Pain in the stomach area or lower back, or pain during sex.
Rarely, a fibroid can cause sudden, serious pain when it outgrows its blood supply and starts to die.
Often, fibroids are grouped by their location. Intramural fibroids grow within the muscular wall of the uterus. Submucosal fibroids bulge into the uterine cavity. Subserosal fibroids form on the outside of the uterus.
Causes for Uterine fibroids :
The exact cause of uterine fibroids isn't clear. But these factors may play roles:
Gene changes. Many fibroids contain changes in genes that differ from those in typical uterine muscle cells.
Hormones. Two hormones called estrogen and progesterone cause the tissue the lines the inside of the uterus to thicken during each menstrual cycle to prepare for pregnancy. These hormones also seem to help fibroids grow.
Fibroids contain more cells that estrogen and progesterone bind to than do typical uterine muscle cells. Fibroids tend to shrink after menopause due to a drop in hormone levels.
Other growth factors. Substances that help the body maintain tissues, such as insulin-like growth factor, may affect fibroid growth.
Extracellular matrix (ECM). This material makes cells stick together, like mortar between bricks. ECM is increased in fibroids and makes them fibrous. ECM also stores growth factors and causes biologic changes in the cells themselves.
Doctors believe that uterine fibroids may develop from a stem cell in the smooth muscular tissue of the uterus. A single cell divides over and over. In time it turns into a firm, rubbery mass distinct from nearby tissue.
The growth patterns of uterine fibroids vary. They may grow slowly or fast. Or they might stay the same size. Some fibroids go through growth spurts, and some shrink on their own.
Fibroids that form during pregnancy can shrink or go away after pregnancy, as the uterus goes back to its usual size.
Risk Factors for Uterine fibroids:
There are few known risk factors for uterine fibroids, other than being a person of reproductive age. These include:
Race. All people of reproductive age who were born female could develop fibroids. But Black people are more likely to have fibroids than are people of other racial groups. Black people have fibroids at younger ages than do white people. They're also likely to have more or larger fibroids, along with worse symptoms, than do white people.
Family history. If your mother or sister had fibroids, you're at higher risk of getting them.
Other factors. Starting your period before the age of 10; obesity; being low on vitamin D; having a diet higher in red meat and lower in green vegetables, fruit and dairy; and drinking alcohol, including beer, seem to raise your risk of getting fibroids.
Complications for Uterine fibroids:
Uterine fibroids often aren't dangerous. But they can cause pain, and they may lead to complications. These include a drop in red blood cells called anemia. That condition can cause fatigue from heavy blood loss. If you bleed heavily during your period, your doctor may tell you to take an iron supplement to prevent or help manage anemia. Sometimes, a person with anemia needs to receive blood from a donor, called a transfusion, due to blood loss.
Preventions for Uterine fibroids
Researchers continue to study the causes of fibroid tumors. More research is needed on how to prevent them, though. It might not be possible to prevent uterine fibroids. But only a small percentage of these tumors need treatment.
You might be able to lower your fibroid risk with healthy lifestyle changes. Try to stay at a healthy weight. Get regular exercise. And eat a balanced diet with plenty of fruits and vegetables.
Some research suggests that birth control pills or long-acting progestin-only contraceptives may lower the risk of fibroids. But using birth control pills before the age of 16 may be linked with a higher risk.
Condition name:Uterine prolapse
Overview of Uterine prolapse:
Uterine prolapse occurs when pelvic floor muscles and ligaments stretch and weaken until they no longer provide enough support for the uterus. As a result, the uterus slips down into or protrudes out of the vagina.
Uterine prolapse most often affects people after menopause who've had one or more vaginal deliveries.
Mild uterine prolapse usually doesn't require treatment. But uterine prolapse that causes discomfort or disrupts daily life might benefit from treatment.
Home Remedies for Uterine prolapse:
Depending on how severe uterine prolapse is, self-care measures might provide relief from symptoms. You might try to:
Strengthen the muscles that support pelvic structures
Eat high-fiber foods and drink lots of fluids to avoid constipation
Avoid bearing down during bowel movements
Avoid heavy lifting
Control coughing
Lose weight if you're overweight
Quit smoking
Kegel exercises
Kegel exercises can strengthen pelvic floor muscles. A strong pelvic floor provides better support for pelvic organs. This might relieve symptoms that can happen with uterine prolapse.
To do these exercises:
Tighten pelvic floor muscles as though trying to prevent passing gas.
Hold the contraction for five seconds, and then relax for five seconds. If this is too difficult, start by holding for two seconds and relaxing for three seconds.
Work up to holding the contractions for 10 seconds at a time.
Aim for at least three sets of 10 repetitions every day.
Kegel exercises might be most successful when a physical therapist teaches them and reinforces the exercises with biofeedback. Biofeedback uses monitoring devices that help ensure proper tightening of the muscles for long enough to work well.
Once you learn how to do them properly, you can do Kegel exercises discreetly just about anytime, whether sitting at a desk or relaxing on the couch.
Symptoms for Uterine prolapse :
Mild uterine prolapse is common after childbirth. It generally doesn't cause symptoms. Symptoms of moderate to severe uterine prolapse include:
Seeing or feeling tissue bulge out of the vagina
Feeling heaviness or pulling in the pelvis
Feeling like the bladder doesn't empty all the way when you use the bathroom
Problems with leaking urine, also called incontinence
Trouble having a bowel movement and needing to press the vagina with your fingers to help have a bowel movement
Feeling as if you're sitting on a small ball
Feeling as if you have vaginal tissue rubbing on clothing
Pressure or discomfort in the pelvis or low back
Sexual concerns, such as feeling as though the vaginal tissue is loose
Causes for Uterine prolapse :
Uterine prolapse results from the weakening of pelvic muscles and supportive tissues. Causes of weakened pelvic muscles and tissues include:
Vaginal delivery
Age at first delivery (older women are at higher risk of pelvic floor injuries compared with younger women)
Difficult labor and delivery or trauma during childbirth
Delivery of a large baby
Being overweight
Lower estrogen level after menopause
Chronic constipation or straining with bowel movements
Chronic cough or bronchitis
Repeated heavy lifting
Risk Factors for Uterine prolapse:
Factors that can increase the risk of uterine prolapse include:
Having one or more vaginal births
Being older when you have your first baby
Giving birth to a large baby
Aging
Obesity
Prior pelvic surgery
Chronic constipation or often straining during bowel movements
Family history of weak connective tissue
Being Hispanic or white
Chronic coughing, such as from smoking
Complications for Uterine prolapse:
Uterine prolapse often happens with prolapse of other pelvic organs. These types of prolapse can also happen:
Anterior prolapse. Anterior prolapse results from weak connective tissue between the bladder and roof of the vagina. It can cause the bladder to bulge into the vagina. This is called a cystocele or prolapsed bladder.
Posterior vaginal prolapse. Weak connective tissue between the rectum and the floor of the vagina can cause the rectum to bulge into the vagina. This might cause difficulty with bowel movements. Posterior vaginal prolapse is also called a rectocele.
Preventions for Uterine prolapse
To reduce the risk of uterine prolapse, try to:
Prevent constipation. Drink plenty of fluids and eat high-fiber foods, such as fruits, vegetables, beans and whole-grains.
Avoid heavy lifting. If you have to lift something heavy, do it correctly. Correct lifting uses the legs instead of the waist or back.
Control coughing. Get treatment for a chronic cough or bronchitis. Don't smoke.
Avoid weight gain. Talk with your doctor about your ideal weight and get advice on how to lose weight, if you need to.
Condition name:Vaginal agenesis
Overview of Vaginal agenesis:
Vaginal agenesis (a-JEN-uh-sis) is a rare disorder in which the vagina doesn't develop, and the womb (uterus) may only develop partially or not at all. This condition is present before birth and may also be associated with kidney or skeletal problems.
The condition is also known as mullerian agenesis, mullerian aplasia or Mayer-Rokitansky-Kuster-Hauser syndrome.
Vaginal agenesis is often identified at puberty when a female does not begin menstruating. Use of a vaginal dilator, a tubelike device that can stretch the vagina when used over a period of time, is often successful in creating a vagina. In some cases, surgery may be needed. Treatment makes it possible to have vaginal intercourse.
There are no home remedies available for Vaginal agenesis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vaginal agenesis :
Vaginal agenesis often goes unnoticed until females reach their teens, but don't menstruate (amenorrhea). Other signs of puberty usually follow typical female development.
Vaginal agenesis may have these features:
The genitals look like a typical female.
The vagina may be shortened without a cervix at the end, or absent and marked only by a slight indentation where a vaginal opening would typically be located.
There may be no uterus or one that's only partially developed. If there's tissue lining the uterus (endometrium), monthly cramping or chronic abdominal pain may occur.
The ovaries typically are fully developed and functional, but they may be in an unusual location in the abdomen. Sometimes the pair of tubes that eggs travel through to get from the ovaries to the uterus (fallopian tubes) are absent or do not develop typically.
Vaginal agenesis may also be associated with other issues, such as:
Problems with development of the kidneys and urinary tract
Developmental changes in the bones of the spine, ribs and wrists
Hearing problems
Other congenital conditions that also involve the heart, gastrointestinal tract and limb growth
Causes for Vaginal agenesis :
It's not clear what causes vaginal agenesis, but at some point during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy, tubes called the mullerian ducts don't develop properly.
Typically, the lower portion of these ducts develops into the uterus and vagina, and the upper portion becomes the fallopian tubes. The underdevelopment of the mullerian ducts results in an absent or partially closed vagina, absent or partial uterus, or both.
There are no Risk Factors available for Vaginal agenesis in the knowledge baseComplications for Vaginal agenesis:
Vaginal agenesis may impact your sexual relationships, but after treatment, your vagina will typically function well for sexual activity.
Females with a missing or partially developed uterus can't get pregnant. If you have healthy ovaries, however, it may be possible to have a baby through in vitro fertilization. The embryo can be implanted in the uterus of another person to carry the pregnancy (gestational carrier). Discuss fertility options with your health care provider.
There are no preventive measures available for Vaginal agenesis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Vaginal cancer
Overview of Vaginal cancer:
Vaginal cancer is a growth of cells that starts in the vagina. The cells multiply quickly and can invade and destroy healthy body tissue.
The vagina is part of the female reproductive system. It's a muscular tube that connects the uterus with the outer genitals. The vagina is sometimes called the birth canal.
Cancer that begins in the vagina is rare. Most cancer that happens in the vagina starts somewhere else and spreads to the vagina.
Vaginal cancer that's diagnosed when it's confined to the vagina has the best chance for a cure. When the cancer spreads beyond the vagina, it's much harder to treat.
There are no home remedies available for Vaginal cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vaginal cancer :
Vaginal cancer may not cause any symptoms at first. As it grows, vaginal cancer may cause signs and symptoms, such as:
Vaginal bleeding that isn't typical, such as after menopause or after sex.
Vaginal discharge.
A lump or mass in the vagina.
Painful urination.
Frequent urination.
Constipation.
Pelvic pain.
Causes for Vaginal cancer :
Vaginal cancer begins when cells in the vagina develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a mass called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Most DNA changes that lead to vaginal cancers are thought to be caused by human papillomavirus, also called HPV. HPV is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. For most people, the virus never causes problems. It usually goes away on its own. For some, though, the virus can cause changes in the cells that may lead to cancer.
Risk Factors for Vaginal cancer:
Factors that may increase your risk of vaginal cancer include:
Complications for Vaginal cancer:
Vaginal cancer can spread to other parts of the body. It most often spreads to the lungs, liver and bones. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Preventions for Vaginal cancer
There is no sure way to prevent vaginal cancer. However, you may lower your risk if you:
Condition name:Vaginal fistula
Overview of Vaginal fistula:
A vaginal fistula is an unusual opening that forms between the vagina and another organ, such as the bladder, colon or rectum. Your healthcare professional might describe a vaginal fistula as a hole in the vagina that lets urine, gas or stool pass through the vagina.
Vaginal fistulas can form after childbirth or after an injury, a surgery, an infection or radiation treatment. You may need surgery to fix a fistula.
There are various types of vaginal fistulas. They are named based on the location of the fistula and organs they affect:
Vesicovaginal fistula. Also called a bladder fistula, this opening forms between the vagina and urinary bladder. This is one of the most common fistulas.
Ureterovaginal fistula. This type of fistula happens when an unusual opening forms between the vagina and the tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. These tubes are called ureters.
Urethrovaginal fistula. The opening forms between the vagina and the tube that carries urine out of the body, called the urethra. This type of fistula also is called a urethral fistula.
Rectovaginal fistula. In this type of fistula, the opening is between the vagina and the lower portion of the large intestine, called the rectum.
Colovaginal fistula. The opening happens between the vagina and colon.
Enterovaginal fistula. The opening is between the small intestine and the vagina.
There are no home remedies available for Vaginal fistula in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vaginal fistula :
Vaginal fistula symptoms can include:
Leaking of urine or stool, or passing of gas, through the vagina.
Urinary tract infections that happen often.
Urine that has an unusual odor or contains blood.
Vaginal fluid called discharge that looks or smells unusual.
Pain during sex.
Pain, swelling or irritation in the area between the vagina and the anus, called the perineum.
Repeated infections of the vagina.
The exact symptoms a person has depend in part on the location of the fistula.
Causes for Vaginal fistula :
Vaginal fistulas have many possible causes, including certain medical conditions and problems that can happen because of surgery. These causes include the following:
Surgery complications. Surgeries that involve the vaginal wall, anus or rectum can lead to vaginal fistulas. So can surgery on the area between the vagina and anus, called the perineum. Fistulas can form for reasons such as injuries during surgery and infections after surgery. Skilled surgeons can repair injuries while operating, which lowers the risk of fistula. But complications such as fistulas are more common after surgery in people with diabetes or in people who use tobacco.
Surgery to remove the uterus, called a hysterectomy, is an example of an operation that can raise the risk of a vaginal fistula. The risk is higher if the hysterectomy is more complex. For example, the risk rises if the surgery takes longer than five hours, or if it involves larger blood loss or the removal of more surrounding tissue.
Childbirth injuries. A vaginal fistula could stem from tearing that sometimes happens when a baby's head comes through the opening of the vagina. Or a fistula might form due to an infection of a surgical cut made between the vagina and the anus to help deliver a baby. This cause is not common in developed countries.
Being in labor a long time because the baby can't move into the birth canal can raise the risk of a vaginal fistula, mainly in developing countries. That's partly because access to emergency delivery measures such as C-section may be limited.
Crohn's disease. This condition inflames tissue that lines the digestive tract. If you follow your Crohn's treatment plan, you're not likely to get a vaginal fistula. Crohn's is a type of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Another type of IBD called ulcerative colitis also may lead to vaginal fistulas, but the risk of that happening is even lower.
Certain cancers and radiation therapy. Cancer of the anus, rectum, vagina or cervix can lead to a vaginal fistula. So can damage from radiation therapy for the treatment of cancer in the pelvic area.
Diverticulitis. This condition involves small, bulging pouches in the digestive tract. Diverticulitis that leads to a vaginal fistula is more common in older people.
A large amount of stool stuck in the rectum. This condition is known as a fecal impaction. It also is more likely to cause a vaginal fistula in an older person.
Risk Factors for Vaginal fistula:
A vaginal fistula has no clear risk factors.
Complications for Vaginal fistula:
Vaginal fistulas can lead to other health conditions called complications. Complications of vaginal fistulas include:
Fistulas that keep coming back.
Ongoing pelvic infections.
Narrowing of the vagina, anus or rectum. This also is called stenosis.
Trouble becoming pregnant.
Loss of a pregnancy after 20 weeks, also called stillbirth.
Preventions for Vaginal fistula
There are no steps you need to take to prevent a vaginal fistula.
Condition name:Varicocele
Overview of Varicocele:
A varicocele (VAR-ih-koe-seel) is an enlargement of the veins within the loose bag of skin that holds the testicles (scrotum). These veins transport oxygen-depleted blood from the testicles. A varicocele occurs when blood pools in the veins rather than circulating efficiently out of the scrotum.
Varicoceles usually form during puberty and develop over time. They may cause some discomfort or pain, but they often result in no symptoms or complications.
A varicocele may cause poor development of a testicle, low sperm production or other problems that may lead to infertility. Surgery to treat varicocele may be recommended to address these complications.
Home Remedies for Varicocele:
If you have a varicocele that causes minor discomfort, but doesn't affect your fertility, you might try the following for pain relief:
Take nonprescription pain medicine, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol, others) or ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others).
Support the scrotum by wearing an athletic supporter or snug briefs.
Symptoms for Varicocele :
A varicocele usually occurs on the left side of the scrotum and often produces no signs or symptoms. Possible signs and symptoms may include:
Pain. A dull, aching pain or discomfort is more likely when standing or late in the day. Lying down often relieves pain.
A mass in the scrotum. If a varicocele is large enough, a mass like a "bag of worms" may be visible above the testicle. A smaller varicocele may be too small to see but noticeable by touch.
Differently sized testicles. The affected testicle may be noticeably smaller than the other testicle.
Infertility. A varicocele may lead to difficulty fathering a child, but not all varicoceles cause infertility.
Causes for Varicocele :
The testicles receive oxygen-rich blood from two testicular arteries — one artery for each side of the scrotum. Similarly, there are also two testicular veins that transport oxygen-depleted blood back toward the heart. Within each side of the scrotum, a network of small veins (pampiniform plexus) transport the oxygen-depleted blood from the testicle to the main testicular vein. A varicocele is the enlargement of the pampiniform plexus.
The exact cause of a varicocele is unknown. One contributing factor may be the malfunction of valves inside the veins that are intended to keep blood moving in the right direction. Also, the left testicular vein follows a slightly different path than the right vein — a path that makes a problem with blood flow more likely on the left.
When the oxygen-depleted blood gets backed up in the network of veins, they widen (dilate), creating the varicocele.
Risk Factors for Varicocele:
There don't appear to be any significant risk factors for developing a varicocele.
Complications for Varicocele:
Having a varicocele can make it difficult for your body to regulate the temperature of the testicles. Oxidative stress and the buildup of toxins can result. These factors may contribute to the following complications:
Poor testicular health. For boys going through puberty, a varicocele may inhibit testicle growth, hormone production, and other factors related to the health and function of the testicle. For men, a varicocele may result in gradual shrinkage due to tissue loss.
Infertility. A varicocele doesn't necessarily cause infertility. An estimated 10% to 20% of men diagnosed with a varicocele experience difficulty fathering a child. Among men with fertility problems, about 40% have a varicocele.
There are no preventive measures available for Varicocele in the knowledge baseCondition name:Varicose veins
Overview of Varicose veins:
Varicose veins are bulging, enlarged veins. Any vein that is close to the skin's surface, called superficial, can become varicosed. Varicose veins most often affect the veins in the legs. That's because standing and walking increase the pressure in the veins of the lower body.
For many people, varicose veins are simply a cosmetic concern. So are spider veins, a common, mild form of varicose veins. But varicose veins can cause aching pain and discomfort. Sometimes they lead to more-serious health problems.
Treatment involves exercising, raising legs when sitting or lying down, or wearing compression stockings. A procedure may be done to close or remove veins.
Home Remedies for Varicose veins:
Try these lifestyle and home remedies for varicose veins:
Get regular exercise. Walking is a great way to help blood flow in the legs. Your healthcare professional can suggest a good activity level for you.
Manage weight. Losing excess pounds takes pressure off the veins.
Avoid salt. Follow a low-salt diet to prevent swelling caused when the body holds in water.
Choose proper footwear. Don't wear high heels. Low-heeled shoes work calf muscles more. This is better for your veins.
Don't wear tight clothes. Tight clothes around your waist, legs or groin can reduce blood flow.
Raise your legs. To improve blood flow in your legs, take a few short breaks daily to raise the legs above the level of the heart. For instance, lie down with your legs resting on three or four pillows. You also can raise the foot of the bed six inches.
Change position often. Don't sit or stand for long periods. Moving helps blood flow.
Symptoms for Varicose veins :
Varicose veins might not cause pain. Symptoms of varicose veins include:
Veins that are dark purple, blue or the same color as the skin. Depending on skin color, these changes may be harder or easier to see.
Veins that look twisted and bulging. They often look like cords on the legs.
When there are painful symptoms of varicose veins, they might include:
An achy or heavy feeling in the legs.
Burning, throbbing, muscle cramping and swelling in the lower legs.
Worse pain after sitting or standing for a long time.
Itching around one or more of the veins.
Changes in skin color around a varicose vein.
Spider veins are like varicose veins, but they're smaller. Spider veins are found closer to the skin's surface and might look like a spider's web.
Spider veins occur on the legs but also can be found on the face. They vary in size and often look like a spider's web.
Causes for Varicose veins :
Weak or damaged valves can lead to varicose veins. Arteries carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Veins return blood from the rest of the body to the heart. To return blood to the heart, the veins in the legs must work against gravity.
Muscles tighten in the lower legs to act as pumps. Vein walls help blood return to the heart. Tiny valves in the veins open as blood flows toward the heart, then close to stop blood from flowing backward. If these valves are weak or damaged, blood can flow backward and pool in the veins, causing the veins to stretch or twist.
Risk Factors for Varicose veins:
The two main risk factors for varicose veins are:
Family history. If other family members have varicose veins, there's a greater chance you will too.
Obesity. Being overweight puts added pressure on veins.
Other things that might increase the risk of varicose veins include:
Age. Aging causes wear and tear on the valves in the veins that help control blood flow. Over time, that wear causes the valves to allow some blood to flow back into the veins, where it collects.
Sex. Women are more likely to get the condition. Hormones tend to relax vein walls. So changes in hormones before a menstrual period or during pregnancy or menopause might be a factor. Hormone treatments, such as birth control pills, might increase the risk of varicose veins.
Pregnancy. During pregnancy, the blood volume in the body increases. This change supports the growing baby but also can make the veins in the legs bigger.
Standing or sitting for long periods of time. Movement helps blood flow.
Complications for Varicose veins:
Complications of varicose veins are rare. They can include:
Ulcers. Painful ulcers can form on the skin near varicose veins, mostly near the ankles. A discolored spot on the skin often begins before an ulcer forms. See your healthcare professional right away if you think you have a leg ulcer.
Blood clots. Sometimes, veins deep within the legs get larger. They might cause leg pain and swelling. Seek medical help for ongoing leg pain or swelling. This can mean a blood clot.
Bleeding. Rarely, veins close to the skin burst. This mostly causes only minor bleeding. But it needs medical help.
Leg swelling. Longtime varicose veins can cause the legs to swell.
Preventions for Varicose veins
Getting better blood flow and muscle tone might lower the risk of having varicose veins. The same ways you treat the discomfort from varicose veins can help prevent them. Try the following:
Don't wear high heels or tight stockings, other than compression stockings.
Change how you sit or stand often.
Eat a high-fiber, low-salt diet.
Exercise.
Raise your legs when sitting or lying down.
Keep a healthy weight.
Condition name:Vascular rings
Overview of Vascular rings:
Not found
There are no home remedies available for Vascular rings in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vascular rings :
Not found
There are no Causes available for Vascular rings in the knowledge baseThere are no Risk Factors available for Vascular rings in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Vascular rings in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Vascular rings in the knowledge baseCondition name:Vasculitis
Overview of Vasculitis:
Vasculitis involves inflammation of the blood vessels. The inflammation can cause the walls of the blood vessels to thicken, which reduces the width of the passageway through the vessel. If blood flow is restricted, it can result in organ and tissue damage.
There are many types of vasculitis, and most of them are rare. Vasculitis might affect just one organ, or several. The condition can be short term or long lasting.
Vasculitis can affect anyone, though some types are more common among certain age groups. Depending on the type you have, you may improve without treatment. Most types require medications to control the inflammation and prevent flare-ups.
There are no home remedies available for Vasculitis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vasculitis :
General signs and symptoms of most types of vasculitis include:
Fever
Headache
Fatigue
Weight loss
General aches and pains
Other signs and symptoms are related to the parts of the body affected, including:
Digestive system. If your stomach or intestines are affected, you may experience pain after eating. Ulcers and perforations are possible and may result in blood in the stool.
Ears. Dizziness, ringing in the ears and abrupt hearing loss may occur.
Eyes. Vasculitis can make your eyes look red and itch or burn. Giant cell arteritis can cause double vision and temporary or permanent blindness in one or both eyes. This is sometimes the first sign of the disease.
Hands or feet. Some types of vasculitis can cause numbness or weakness in a hand or foot. The palms of the hands and soles of the feet might swell or harden.
Lungs. You may develop shortness of breath or even cough up blood if vasculitis affects your lungs.
Skin. Bleeding under the skin can show up as red spots. Vasculitis can also cause lumps or open sores on your skin.
Causes for Vasculitis :
The exact cause of vasculitis isn't fully understood. Some types are related to a person's genetic makeup. Others result from the immune system attacking blood vessel cells by mistake. Possible triggers for this immune system reaction include:
Infections, such as hepatitis B and hepatitis C
Blood cancers
Immune system diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, lupus and scleroderma
Reactions to certain drugs
Risk Factors for Vasculitis:
Vasculitis can happen to anyone. Factors that may increase the risk of certain disorders include:
Age. Giant cell arteritis rarely occurs before the age of 50, while Kawasaki disease is most common in children younger than 5 years old.
Family history. Behcet's disease, granulomatosis with polyangiitis and Kawasaki disease sometimes run in families.
Lifestyle choices. Using cocaine can increase your risk of developing vasculitis. Smoking tobacco, especially if you're a man younger than 45, can increase your risk of Buerger's disease.
Medications. Vasculitis can sometimes be triggered by medications such as hydralazine, allopurinol, minocycline and propylthiouracil.
Infections. Having hepatitis B or C can increase your risk of vasculitis.
Immune disorders. People who have disorders in which their immune systems mistakenly attack their own bodies may be at higher risk of vasculitis. Examples include lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and scleroderma.
Sex. Giant cell arteritis is much more common in women, while Buerger's disease is more common in men.
Complications for Vasculitis:
Vasculitis complications depend on the type and severity of your condition. Or they may be related to side effects of the prescription medications you use to treat the condition. Complications of vasculitis include:
Organ damage. Some types of vasculitis can be severe, causing damage to major organs.
Blood clots and aneurysms. A blood clot may form in a blood vessel, obstructing blood flow. Rarely, vasculitis will cause a blood vessel to weaken and bulge, forming an aneurysm (AN-yoo-riz-um).
Vision loss or blindness. This is a possible complication of untreated giant cell arteritis.
Infections. Some of the medications used to treat vasculitis may weaken your immune system. This can make you more prone to infections.
There are no preventive measures available for Vasculitis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Vasovagal syncope
Overview of Vasovagal syncope:
Vasovagal syncope (vay-zoh-VAY-gul SING-kuh-pee) occurs when you faint because your body overreacts to certain triggers, such as the sight of blood or extreme emotional distress. It may also be called neurocardiogenic syncope.
The vasovagal syncope trigger causes your heart rate and blood pressure to drop suddenly. That leads to reduced blood flow to your brain, causing you to briefly lose consciousness.
Vasovagal syncope is usually harmless and requires no treatment. But it's possible that you may injure yourself during a vasovagal syncope episode. Your doctor may recommend tests to rule out more-serious causes of fainting, such as heart disorders.
There are no home remedies available for Vasovagal syncope in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vasovagal syncope :
Before you faint due to vasovagal syncope, you may experience some of the following:
Pale skin
Lightheadedness
Tunnel vision — your field of vision narrows so that you see only what's in front of you
Nausea
Feeling warm
A cold, clammy sweat
Blurred vision
During a vasovagal syncope episode, bystanders may notice:
Jerky, abnormal movements
A slow, weak pulse
Dilated pupils
Recovery after a vasovagal episode generally begins in less than a minute. However, if you stand up too soon after fainting — within about 15 to 30 minutes — you're at risk of fainting again.
Causes for Vasovagal syncope :
Vasovagal syncope occurs when the part of your nervous system that regulates heart rate and blood pressure malfunctions in response to a trigger, such as the sight of blood.
Your heart rate slows, and the blood vessels in your legs widen (dilate). This allows blood to pool in your legs, which lowers your blood pressure. Combined, the drop in blood pressure and slowed heart rate quickly reduce blood flow to your brain, and you faint.
Sometimes there is no classical vasovagal syncope trigger, but common triggers include:
Standing for long periods of time
Heat exposure
Seeing blood
Having blood drawn
Fear of bodily injury
Straining, such as to have a bowel movement
There are no Risk Factors available for Vasovagal syncope in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Vasovagal syncope in the knowledge basePreventions for Vasovagal syncope
You may not always be able to avoid a vasovagal syncope episode. If you feel like you might faint, lie down and lift your legs. This allows gravity to keep blood flowing to your brain. If you can't lie down, sit down and put your head between your knees until you feel better.
Condition name:Ventricular tachycardia
Overview of Ventricular tachycardia:
Ventricular tachycardia is a type of irregular heartbeat, called an arrhythmia. It starts in the lower chambers of the heart, called the ventricles. This condition also may be called V-tach or VT.
A healthy heart typically beats about 60 to 100 times a minute at rest. In ventricular tachycardia, the heart beats faster, usually 100 or more beats a minute.
Sometimes the rapid heartbeat stops the heart chambers from properly filling with blood. The heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body. If this happens, you may feel short of breath or lightheaded. Some people lose consciousness.
Ventricular tachycardia episodes may be brief and last only a few seconds without causing harm. But episodes lasting more than a few seconds, called sustained V-tach, can be life-threatening. Sometimes ventricular tachycardia can cause all heart activity to stop. This complication is called sudden cardiac arrest.
Treatments for ventricular tachycardia include medicines, a shock to the heart, a heart device, and a procedure or surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Ventricular tachycardia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Ventricular tachycardia :
When the heart beats too fast, it may not send enough blood to the rest of the body. So the organs and tissues may not get enough oxygen. Symptoms of ventricular tachycardia are due to a lack of oxygen. They may include:
Chest pain, called angina.
Dizziness.
Pounding heartbeat, called palpitations.
Lightheadedness.
Shortness of breath.
Ventricular tachycardia can be a medical emergency even if your symptoms are minor.
Ventricular tachycardia, sometimes called V-tach or VT, is grouped according to how long an episode lasts.
Nonsustained V-tach stops on its own within 30 seconds. Brief episodes may not cause any symptoms.
Sustained V-tach lasts more than 30 seconds. This type of ventricular tachycardia can cause serious health problems.
Symptoms of sustained V-tach may include:
Fainting.
Loss of consciousness.
Cardiac arrest or sudden death.
Causes for Ventricular tachycardia :
Ventricular tachycardia is caused by faulty heart signaling that makes the heart beat too fast in the lower heart chambers. The lower heart chambers are called the ventricles. The fast heart rate doesn't allow the ventricles to fill and squeeze to pump enough blood to the body.
Many things can cause or lead to problems with heart signaling and trigger ventricular tachycardia. These include:
Prior heart attack.
Any heart condition that caused scarring of heart tissue, called structural heart disease.
Poor blood flow to the heart muscle due to coronary artery disease.
Heart problems present at birth, including long QT syndrome.
Changes in levels of body minerals called electrolytes. These include potassium, sodium, calcium and magnesium.
Side effects of medicines.
Use of stimulants such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
Sometimes, the exact cause of ventricular tachycardia can't be determined. This is called idiopathic ventricular tachycardia.
Risk Factors for Ventricular tachycardia:
Any condition that puts a strain on the heart or damages heart tissue can increase the risk of ventricular tachycardia. Lifestyle changes such as eating healthy and not smoking may lower the risk. It's also important to get proper medical treatment if you have any of the following conditions and events:
Heart disease.
Side effects of medicines.
Severe changes in the level of body minerals, called electrolyte imbalances.
A history of using stimulant drugs such as cocaine or methamphetamine.
A family history of tachycardia or other heart rhythm disorders also makes a person more likely to get ventricular tachycardia.
Complications for Ventricular tachycardia:
Complications of ventricular tachycardia depend on:
How fast the heart is beating.
How long the rapid heart rate lasts.
Whether there are other heart conditions.
A life-threatening complication of V-tach is ventricular fibrillation, also called V-fib. V-fib can cause all heart activity to suddenly stop, called sudden cardiac arrest. Emergency treatment is needed to prevent death. V-fib happens most often in people with heart disease or a prior heart attack. Sometimes it occurs in those who have high or low potassium levels or other changes in body mineral levels.
Other possible complications of ventricular tachycardia include:
Frequent fainting spells or unconsciousness.
Heart failure.
Sudden death caused by cardiac arrest.
Preventions for Ventricular tachycardia
Preventing ventricular tachycardia starts with keeping the heart in good shape. If you have heart disease, get regular health checkups and follow your treatment plan. Take all medicines as directed.
Take the following steps to keep the heart healthy. The American Heart Association recommends these eight steps:
Eat a balanced, nutritious diet. Eat a healthy diet that's low in salt and solid fats and rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
Get regular exercise. Try to exercise for at least 30 minutes on most days. Ask your healthcare team which exercises are safest for you.
Maintain a healthy weight. Being overweight increases the risk of heart disease. Talk with your care team to set realistic goals for body mass index (BMI) and weight.
Control blood pressure and cholesterol. High blood pressure and high cholesterol increase the risk of heart disease. Make lifestyle changes and take medicines as directed to manage high blood pressure or high cholesterol.
Manage stress. Stress can make the heart beat faster. Getting more exercise, practicing mindfulness and connecting with others in support groups are some ways to reduce and manage stress.
Limit alcohol. If you choose to drink alcohol, do so in moderation. For healthy adults, that means up to one drink a day for women and up to two drinks a day for men.
Stop smoking. If you smoke and can't quit on your own, talk to a healthcare professional about strategies to help you stop.
Practice good sleep habits. Poor sleep may increase the risk of heart disease and other long-term health conditions. Adults should aim to get 7 to 9 hours of sleep daily. Go to bed and wake at the same time every day, including on weekends. If you have trouble sleeping, talk to a healthcare professional about strategies that might help.
Other lifestyle changes also can help protect heart health and may prevent irregular heartbeats:
Limit caffeine. Caffeine is a stimulant. It can make the heart beat faster.
Don't use illegal drugs. Stimulants such as cocaine and methamphetamine can increase the heart rate. If you need help stopping, talk to your healthcare team about an appropriate program for you.
Check medicine ingredients. Some cold and cough medicines bought without a prescription contain stimulants that may increase the heart rate. Always tell your healthcare team about all the medicines you take.
Go to scheduled health checkups. Have regular physical exams and report any new symptoms to your healthcare team.
Condition name:Vertebral tumor
Overview of Vertebral tumor:
A vertebral tumor is a growth of cells that happens in the bones of the spine. A vertebral tumor also is called a spinal tumor. The bones of the spine are called the vertebrae. The spine is made up of many small vertebrae stacked on top of one another. The vertebrae hold the body upright. They enclose and protect the spinal cord.
Vertebral tumors can be cancerous or not cancerous. A noncancerous vertebral tumor also is called a benign vertebral tumor. Vertebral tumors that are cancerous are called malignant vertebral tumors.
Most malignant vertebral tumors are caused by cancer that starts somewhere else in the body and spreads to the spine. Cancer that spreads from an organ to another part of the body is called metastatic cancer. Cancers that affect the blood cells and bone marrow also can cause malignant vertebral tumors.
Vertebral tumors that start in the bones of the spine and haven't spread from somewhere else are rare. Another name for these tumors is primary bone tumors.
Treatment for vertebral tumors includes surgery, radiation therapy and medicines, including chemotherapy. Small and slow-growing vertebral tumors might not need treatment right away. The treatment that's best for your vertebral tumor depends on your situation. Your healthcare team considers the type of tumor you have, whether it is cancerous and its location within the spine.
There are no home remedies available for Vertebral tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vertebral tumor :
Signs and symptoms of vertebral tumors include:
Back pain in the area of the tumor.
Back pain that radiates or shoots from the back to a nearby area.
Back pain that's worse at night.
Changes in sensation, such as numbness or a feeling of pins and needles.
Loss of the ability to move part of the body.
Loss of control over the bladder and bowels.
Muscle weakness.
Causes for Vertebral tumor :
Most vertebral tumors are caused by cancer that starts somewhere else in the body. Cancer that spreads from an organ to somewhere else in the body is called metastatic cancer. Any cancer can spread to the spine. Most vertebral tumors are caused by cancer that spreads from the breasts, lungs or prostate. Other cancers that tend to spread to the spine include kidney cancer and thyroid cancer.
Cancers that affect the blood cells and bone marrow also can cause vertebral tumors. These cancers include multiple myeloma and lymphoma.
Vertebral tumors that start in the spine are rare. It's not clear what causes them.
Vertebral tumors that start in the spine happen when cells in the bones of the spine develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In the tumor cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the tumor cells to make many more cells quickly. Tumor cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
Sometimes cells develop changes in their DNA that turn them into cancer cells. Cancer cells can invade and destroy healthy body tissue. They can break away and spread to other parts of the body.
Examples of vertebral tumors that start in the spine and aren't cancerous include:
Hemangioma.
Osteoid osteoma.
Osteoblastoma.
Aneurysmal bone cyst.
Osteochondroma.
Enchondroma.
Chondroblastoma.
Examples of vertebral tumors that start in the spine and are cancerous include:
Chondrosarcoma.
Ewing sarcoma.
Osteosarcoma.
Chordoma.
Risk Factors for Vertebral tumor:
The risk of vertebral tumors is higher in people who have cancer or have been treated for cancer. Most vertebral tumors are caused by cancer that starts somewhere else in the body and spreads to the spine. Cancer that spreads to the spine most often starts in the breasts, lungs or prostate.
Complications for Vertebral tumor:
Complications caused by vertebral tumors include:
Spinal cord compression. Spinal cord compression happens when a tumor grows to press on the spinal cord or nearby nerves. It often causes back pain at first. Later it can cause weakness and numbness in the part of the body controlled by the affected nerves. There may be difficulty walking and a loss of control of the bladder and bowels.
Spinal instability. Spinal instability can happen if a vertebral tumor weakens the bones in the spine. Bones weakened by tumors can break or go out of alignment. This can make it hard for the spine to hold the body upright. Spinal instability typically causes pain and can lead to weakness.
Treatments may help prevent or treat these complications.
There are no preventive measures available for Vertebral tumor in the knowledge baseCondition name:Vesicoureteral reflux
Overview of Vesicoureteral reflux:
Vesicoureteral (ves-ih-koe-yoo-REE-tur-ul) reflux is the abnormal flow of urine from your bladder back up the tubes (ureters) that connect your kidneys to your bladder. Normally, urine flows from your kidneys through the ureters down to your bladder. It's not supposed to flow back up.
Vesicoureteral reflux is usually diagnosed in infants and children. The disorder increases the risk of urinary tract infections, which, if left untreated, can lead to kidney damage.
Children may outgrow primary vesicoureteral reflux. Treatment, which includes medication or surgery, aims at preventing kidney damage.
Home Remedies for Vesicoureteral reflux:
Urinary tract infections, which are so common to vesicoureteral reflux, can be painful. But you can take steps to ease your child's discomfort until antibiotics clear the infection. They include:
Encourage your child to drink fluids, particularly water. Drinking water dilutes urine and may help flush out bacteria.
Provide a heating pad or a warm blanket or towel. Warmth can help minimize feelings of pressure or pain. If you don't have a heating pad, place a towel or blanket in the dryer for a few minutes to warm it up. Be sure the towel or blanket is just warm, not hot, and then place it over your child's abdomen.
If bladder and bowel dysfunction (BBD) contributes to your child's vesicoureteral reflux, encourage healthy toileting habits. Avoiding constipation and emptying the bladder every two hours while awake may help.
Symptoms for Vesicoureteral reflux :
Urinary tract infections commonly occur in people with vesicoureteral reflux. A urinary tract infection (UTI) doesn't always cause noticeable signs and symptoms, though most people have some.
These signs and symptoms can include:
A strong, persistent urge to urinate
A burning sensation when urinating
The need to pass small amounts of urine frequently
Cloudy urine
Fever
Pain in your side (flank) or abdomen
A UTI may be difficult to diagnose in children, who may have only nonspecific signs and symptoms. Signs and symptoms in infants with a UTI may also include:
An unexplained fever
Lack of appetite
Irritability
As your child gets older, untreated vesicoureteral reflux can lead to:
Bed-wetting
Constipation or loss of control over bowel movements
High blood pressure
Protein in urine
Another indication of vesicoureteral reflux, which may be detected before birth by sonogram, is swelling of the kidneys or the urine-collecting structures of one or both kidneys (hydronephrosis) in the fetus, caused by the backup of urine into the kidneys.
Causes for Vesicoureteral reflux :
Your urinary system includes your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. All play a role in removing waste products from your body via urine.
Tubes called ureters carry urine from your kidneys down to your bladder, where it is stored until it exits the body through another tube (the urethra) during urination.
Vesicoureteral reflux can develop in two types, primary and secondary:
Primary vesicoureteral reflux. Children with primary vesicoureteral reflux are born with a defect in the valve that normally prevents urine from flowing backward from the bladder into the ureters. Primary vesicoureteral reflux is the more common type.
As your child grows, the ureters lengthen and straighten, which may improve valve function and eventually correct the reflux. This type of vesicoureteral reflux tends to run in families, which indicates that it may be genetic, but the exact cause of the defect is unknown.
Secondary vesicoureteral reflux. The cause of this form of reflux is most often from failure of the bladder to empty properly, either due to a blockage or failure of the bladder muscle or damage to the nerves that control normal bladder emptying.
Risk Factors for Vesicoureteral reflux:
Risk factors for vesicoureteral reflux include:
Bladder and bowel dysfunction (BBD). Children with BBD hold their urine and stool and experience recurrent urinary tract infections, which can contribute to vesicoureteral reflux.
Race. White children appear to have a higher risk of vesicoureteral reflux.
Sex. Generally, girls have a much higher risk of having this condition than boys do. The exception is for vesicoureteral reflux that's present at birth, which is more common in boys.
Age. Infants and children up to age 2 are more likely to have vesicoureteral reflux than older children are.
Family history. Primary vesicoureteral reflux tends to run in families. Children whose parents had the condition are at higher risk of developing it. Siblings of children who have the condition also are at higher risk, so your doctor may recommend screening for siblings of a child with primary vesicoureteral reflux.
Complications for Vesicoureteral reflux:
Kidney damage is the primary concern with vesicoureteral reflux. The more severe the reflux, the more serious the complications are likely to be.
Complications may include:
Kidney (renal) scarring. Untreated UTIs can lead to scarring, which is permanent damage to kidney tissue. Extensive scarring may lead to high blood pressure and kidney failure.
High blood pressure. Because the kidneys remove waste from the bloodstream, damage to your kidneys and the resultant buildup of wastes can raise your blood pressure.
Kidney failure. Scarring can cause a loss of function in the filtering part of the kidney. This may lead to kidney failure, which can occur quickly (acute kidney failure) or may develop over time (chronic kidney disease).
There are no preventive measures available for Vesicoureteral reflux in the knowledge baseCondition name:Viral hemorrhagic fevers
Overview of Viral hemorrhagic fevers:
Viral hemorrhagic (hem-uh-RAJ-ik) fevers are infectious diseases that can cause severe, life-threatening illness. They can damage the walls of tiny blood vessels, making them leak, and can hamper the blood's ability to clot. The resulting internal bleeding is usually not life-threatening, but the diseases can be.
Some viral hemorrhagic fevers include:
Dengue
Ebola
Lassa
Marburg
Yellow fever
These diseases most commonly occur in tropical areas. In the United States, people who get them usually have recently traveled to one of those areas.
There's no cure for viral hemorrhagic fevers. There are vaccines for only a few types. Until additional vaccines are developed, the best approach is prevention.
There are no home remedies available for Viral hemorrhagic fevers in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Viral hemorrhagic fevers :
Signs and symptoms of viral hemorrhagic fevers vary by disease. In general, early signs and symptoms can include:
Fever
Fatigue, weakness or general feeling of being unwell
Dizziness
Muscle, bone or joint aches
Nausea and vomiting
Diarrhea
Causes for Viral hemorrhagic fevers :
Viral hemorrhagic fevers are spread by contact with infected animals or insects. The viruses that cause viral hemorrhagic fevers live in a variety of animal and insect hosts. Most commonly the hosts include mosquitoes, ticks, rodents or bats.
Some viral hemorrhagic fevers can also be spread from person to person.
Risk Factors for Viral hemorrhagic fevers:
Living in or traveling to an area where a particular viral hemorrhagic fever is common will increase your risk of becoming infected with that particular virus. Other factors that can increase your risk include:
Working with infected people
Slaughtering or eating infected animals
Sharing needles to use intravenous drugs
Having unprotected sex
Working outdoors or in rat-infested buildings
Being exposed to infected blood or other body fluids
Complications for Viral hemorrhagic fevers:
Viral hemorrhagic fevers can cause:
Septic shock
Multiorgan failure
Death
Preventions for Viral hemorrhagic fevers
Preventing viral hemorrhagic fevers is challenging. If you live in, work in or travel to areas where these diseases are common, protect yourself from infection by using appropriate protective barriers when working with blood or body fluids. For example, wear gloves and eye and face shields. Precautions also include careful handling, disinfection and disposal of lab specimens and waste.
Condition name:Vocal cord paralysis
Overview of Vocal cord paralysis:
Vocal cord paralysis is a condition that causes the loss of control of the muscles that control the voice. It happens when the nerve impulses to the voice box, also called the larynx, are disrupted. This results in paralysis of the vocal cord muscles.
Vocal cord paralysis can make it hard to speak and even breathe. The vocal cords, also called vocal folds, do more than just produce sound. They also protect the airway. They prevent food, drink and even saliva from entering the windpipe and causing a person to choke.
Possible causes of vocal cord paralysis include nerve damage during surgery, viral infections and certain cancers. Treatment for vocal cord paralysis usually involves surgery, and sometimes voice therapy.
There are no home remedies available for Vocal cord paralysis in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vocal cord paralysis :
Vocal cord paralysis usually involves the loss of control of only one vocal cord. Paralysis of both vocal cords is a rare but serious condition. This can make it hard to speak and can cause trouble with breathing and swallowing.
The vocal cords are two flexible bands of muscle tissue that sit at the entrance to the windpipe, also known as the trachea. When speaking, the bands come together and vibrate to make sound. The rest of the time, the vocal cords are relaxed in an open position so that you can breathe.
Symptoms of vocal cord paralysis may include:
A breathy quality to the voice.
Hoarseness.
Noisy breathing.
Shortness of breath.
Loss of vocal pitch.
Choking or coughing while swallowing food, drink or saliva.
The need to take several breaths while speaking.
Inability to speak loudly.
Loss of a gag reflex.
Ineffective coughing.
Frequent throat clearing.
Causes for Vocal cord paralysis :
Vocal cord paralysis happens when nerve impulses to the voice box, known as the larynx, are disrupted. This causes the muscle to become paralyzed. Often the exact cause of vocal cord paralysis isn't known. But some known causes may include:
Injury to the vocal cord during surgery. Surgery on or near the neck or upper chest can result in damage to the nerves that serve the voice box. Surgeries that carry a risk of damage include surgeries to the thyroid or parathyroid glands, esophagus, neck, and chest.
Neck or chest injury. Trauma to the neck or chest may injure the nerves that serve the vocal cords or the voice box itself.
Stroke. A stroke interrupts blood flow in the brain and may damage the part of the brain that sends messages to the voice box.
Tumors. Tumors, both cancerous and noncancerous, can grow in or around the muscles, cartilage or nerves controlling the function of the voice box. This can cause vocal cord paralysis.
Infections. Some infections, such as Lyme disease, Epstein-Barr virus and herpes, can cause inflammation and directly damage the nerves in the voice box. There's some evidence that infection with COVID-19 may cause vocal cord paralysis.
Neurological conditions. Certain neurological conditions, such as multiple sclerosis or Parkinson's disease, can lead to vocal cord paralysis.
Risk Factors for Vocal cord paralysis:
Risk factors for vocal cord paralysis include:
Having throat or chest surgery. People who need surgery on their thyroid, throat or upper chest have an increased risk of vocal cord nerve damage. Sometimes the breathing tubes used in surgery or to help people breathe when they're having serious respiratory trouble can damage the vocal cord nerves.
Having a neurological condition. People with certain neurological conditions — such as Parkinson's disease or multiple sclerosis — are more likely to develop vocal cord weakness or paralysis.
Complications for Vocal cord paralysis:
Breathing problems associated with vocal cord paralysis may be so mild that you just have a hoarse-sounding voice. Or they can be so serious that they're life-threatening.
Vocal cord paralysis keeps the opening to the airway from completely opening or closing. This can cause someone to choke on or inhale food or liquid, known as aspiration. Aspiration that leads to severe pneumonia is rare but serious and requires immediate medical care.
There are no preventive measures available for Vocal cord paralysis in the knowledge baseCondition name:Voice disorders
Overview of Voice disorders:
People develop a voice disorder for many reasons. A voice disorder is a change in how the voice sounds. Health care providers trained in ear, nose and throat illnesses and speech-language pathologists diagnose and treat voice issues.
Treatment depends on what's causing the voice change. Treatment can include voice therapy, drugs, shots or surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Voice disorders in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Voice disorders :
Not found
Causes for Voice disorders :
The voice box, also called the larynx, is made of a smooth covering, muscle and soft, moist areas. The voice box sits at the top of the windpipe, also known as the trachea, and the base of the tongue. The vocal cords vibrate to create sound.
Air moving through the voice box causes the vocal cords to vibrate and brings them closer together. The vocal cords also help close the voice box during swallowing to stop you from breathing in food or liquid.
If vocal cords become swollen, or inflamed, develop growths or can't move as they should, they can't work properly. Any of these might cause a voice disorder.
Some common voice disorders include:
Laryngitis
Voice changes related to the brain and nervous system, known as spasmodic dysphonia (spaz-MOD-ki dis-FOE-nee-uh)
Polyps, nodules or cysts on the vocal cords — growths that aren't cancer
Precancerous and cancerous growths
Vocal cord paralysis or weakness
White patches, also known as leukoplakia (loo-koh-PLAY-key-uh)
Risk Factors for Voice disorders:
Many factors can lead to a voice disorder, such as:
Aging
Alcohol use
Allergies
Conditions related to the brain and nervous system, such as Parkinson's disease or a stroke
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD)
Illnesses, such as colds or upper respiratory infections
Scarring from neck surgery or from trauma to the front of the neck
Screaming
Smoking
Throat cancer
Throat dehydration
Thyroid problems
Voice misuse or overuse
There are no Complications available for Voice disorders in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Voice disorders in the knowledge baseCondition name:Vulvar cancer
Overview of Vulvar cancer:
Vulvar cancer is cancer that starts as a growth of cells on the vulva. The vulva is the area of skin that surrounds the urethra and vagina. It includes the clitoris and labia.
Vulvar cancer commonly forms as a lump or sore on the vulva that often causes itching. Though it can happen at any age, vulvar cancer is usually diagnosed in older adults.
Vulvar cancer treatment often starts with surgery to remove the cancer and a small amount of surrounding healthy tissue. Sometimes vulvar cancer surgery requires removing the entire vulva. The earlier vulvar cancer is diagnosed, the less likely an extensive surgery is needed for treatment.
There are no home remedies available for Vulvar cancer in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Vulvar cancer :
Signs and symptoms of vulvar cancer may include:
A lump, wartlike bump or an open sore on the vulva.
Bleeding in the genital area that isn't from menstruation.
Itching of the skin of the vulva that doesn't go away.
Pain and tenderness that affects the vulva.
Skin changes, such as changes in the color of the skin of the vulva or thickening of the skin.
Causes for Vulvar cancer :
It's not always clear what causes vulvar cancer. This cancer starts on the area of skin that surrounds the urethra and vagina. This area of skin is called the vulva.
Vulvar cancer happens when cells in the vulva develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell the cell what to do. In healthy cells, the DNA gives instructions to grow and multiply at a set rate. The instructions tell the cells to die at a set time. In cancer cells, the DNA changes give different instructions. The changes tell the cancer cells to make many more cells quickly. Cancer cells can keep living when healthy cells would die. This causes too many cells.
The cancer cells might form a growth called a tumor. The tumor can grow to invade and destroy healthy body tissue. In time, cancer cells can break away and spread to other parts of the body. When cancer spreads, it's called metastatic cancer.
Exactly what causes the DNA changes that lead to vulvar cancer isn't always known. Healthcare professionals believe some vulvar cancers are caused by human papillomavirus. Human papilloma virus, also called HPV, is a common virus passed through sexual contact. It's associated with the most common type of vulvar cancer, which is vulvar squamous cell carcinoma.
Risk Factors for Vulvar cancer:
Factors that increase the risk of vulvar cancer include:
Older age. The risk of vulvar cancer increases with age, though it can happen at any age. The average age at diagnosis is 65.
Being exposed to human papillomavirus. Human papillomavirus, also called HPV, is a common virus that's passed through sexual contact. HPV increases the risk of several cancers, including vulvar cancer and cervical cancer. Many young, sexually active people are exposed to HPV. For most the infection goes away on its own. For some, the infection causes cell changes and increases the risk of cancer in the future.
Smoking tobacco. Smoking tobacco increases the risk of vulvar cancer.
Having a weakened immune system. If the body's germ-fighting immune system is weakened by medicines or illness, there might be a higher risk of vulvar cancer. People with a weakened immune system include those taking medicines to control the immune system, such as after an organ transplant. Certain medical conditions, such as infection with HIV, can weaken the immune system.
Having a history of a precancerous condition of the vulva. Vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia is a precancerous condition that increases the risk of vulvar cancer. Most instances of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia will never develop into cancer. But a small number do go on to become invasive vulvar cancer.
Having a skin condition involving the vulva. Lichen sclerosus causes the vulvar skin to become thin and itchy. It also increases the risk of vulvar cancer.
There are no Complications available for Vulvar cancer in the knowledge basePreventions for Vulvar cancer
To lower the risk of vulvar cancer, don't smoke tobacco. Take steps to protect yourself from human papillomavirus infection. Human papillomavirus, also called HPV, is associated with the most common type of vulvar cancer.
Condition name:Vulvodynia
Overview of Vulvodynia:
Vulvodynia (vul-voe-DIN-e-uh) is a type of long-term pain or discomfort around the outer part of the female genitals, called the vulva. It lasts at least three months and has no clear cause. The pain, burning or irritation linked with vulvodynia can make you so uncomfortable that sitting for a long time or having sex becomes unthinkable. The condition can last for months to years.
If you have symptoms of vulvodynia, don't let embarrassment or a lack of visible signs stop you from talking with your gynecologist or another healthcare professional. Treatments can ease your discomfort. And your care team might be able to find a cause for your pain. So, it's key to get a medical exam.
Home Remedies for Vulvodynia:
Simple self-care steps may help you manage vulvodynia symptoms.
Some tips for work are:
Get comfortable. If you sit a lot during the day, use a foam rubber-donut cushion.
Try to stand more. This takes pressure off the areas around your vulva.
Tips for exercise include:
Limit high-intensity exercises, such as running. These create friction that can irritate the vulva.
Use a frozen gel pack after exercise. Wrap it in a towel and put in on your vulva for up to 15 minutes to ease any symptoms.
Limit activities that put pressure on your vulva, such as biking or horseback riding.
Tips for bathing and swimming include:
Wash gently. Scrubbing the affected area harshly or washing too often can make irritation worse. Instead, use plain lukewarm or cool water to gently clean your vulva with your hand. Then pat the area dry. After you bathe, put on a preservative-free emollient, such as plain petroleum jelly. This creates a protective barrier.
Stay away from products that can irritate the vulva. Don't use bubble bath, feminine hygiene products, or perfumed creams or soaps.
Soak in a sitz bath. Two to three times a day, sit in lukewarm or cool water with Epsom salts or colloidal oatmeal for 5 to 10 minutes. This may help relieve burning and irritation.
Stay out of hot tubs and hot baths. Spending time in hot water can cause discomfort and itching.
Swim in pools that don't have a lot of chlorine. This pool disinfectant keeps the water clean, but too much can be irritating.
Some hygiene tips are:
Don't use deodorant tampons or pads. The deodorant can be irritating. Instead, use pads and tampons that are 100% cotton.
Use toilet paper that is soft, white and unscented.
Urinate before your bladder feels full. Then rinse your vulva with water and pat dry.
Some tips for clothing and laundry are:
Wear loose-fitting clothes. Tight clothing limits airflow to your vulva, which can be irritating to the area. Wear 100% cotton underwear instead of nylon underwear. Try sleeping without underwear at night. Also make sure to wear loose pants and skirts. Choose thigh-high or knee-high hose instead of pantyhose.
After a workout, take off exercise clothes right away. Remove a wet bathing suit after you swim too.
Use laundry detergents made for sensitive skin. And don't use fabric softener on underwear.
If your washing machine has a double- or extra-rinse cycle, use it on clothes that come in contact with your vulva. This helps rinse off detergent.
If you're sexually active:
Use a water-based lubricant. Put it on before you have sex. Don't use products that contain alcohol, dyes, perfume, flavor, or warming or cooling ingredients.
Choose your birth control with care. Keep in mind that spermicide or contraceptive creams may be irritating. Talk with your doctor or other member of your care team about a form of birth control that won't irritate your vulva.
Urinate after sex. This can lower your chances of getting an infection. After you urinate, rinse your vulva with cool water and pat dry.
Try cold compresses or gel packs to ease burning. Wrap them in a towel and place them on your vulva for 15 minutes at a time.
Symptoms for Vulvodynia :
The main vulvodynia symptom is pain in the vulva, which includes the opening of the vagina. The pain often is described as:
Burning.
Irritation.
Stinging.
Rawness.
Soreness.
Sharp or knife-like pain.
You also may feel aching, throbbing and swelling.
How often the symptoms happen and where exactly they're felt varies from person to person. Your pain might be constant, or it may come and go. It might flare up only when the vulva is touched. You might feel the pain throughout your entire vulva. This is called generalized vulvodynia. Or the pain may flare up in a certain area, such as the tissue surrounding the opening of the vagina, called the vestibule. This is known as localized vulvodynia, and it's more common than the generalized kind.
The tissue of the vulva might look slightly inflamed or swollen. More often, your vulva doesn't look different than usual.
Causes for Vulvodynia :
Experts don't know what causes vulvodynia. Factors that might play a role include:
Injury to or irritation of the nerves of the vulva.
Past infections of the vagina.
Painful swelling called inflammation that affects the vulva.
Some genetic conditions.
Allergies.
Hormonal changes.
Muscle spasm or weakness in the pelvic floor, which supports the uterus, bladder and bowel.
There are no Risk Factors available for Vulvodynia in the knowledge baseComplications for Vulvodynia:
Without treatment, vulvodynia can affect mental health, relationships and other aspects of your life.
The condition is linked with anxiety and depression. It's also tied to less sexual desire, arousal and enjoyment. Fear of having painful sex can cause spasms in the muscles around the vagina, a condition called vaginismus. Intimacy issues such as these lead many people with vulvodynia to say they feel shame, lower self-esteem, negative about body image and lacking as a sexual partner.
The pain and other symptoms of vulvodynia might make it harder to keep up with work. You may feel less social too. And you may have trouble getting quality sleep.
There are no preventive measures available for Vulvodynia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia
Overview of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia:
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (mak-roe-glob-u-lih-NEE-me-uh) is a type of cancer that begins in the white blood cells. Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia is considered a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It's sometimes called lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma.
In Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, some white blood cells undergo changes that turn them into cancer cells. The cancer cells can build up in the spongy material inside the bones where blood cells are made. This material is called bone marrow. The cancer cells crowd healthy blood cells out of the bone marrow. Cancer cells also may build up in other parts of the body, such as the lymph nodes and the spleen.
The cancer cells make a protein that can build up in the blood. Too much of the protein can reduce blood flow in the body and cause other problems.
There are no home remedies available for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia :
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia grows slowly. It might not cause symptoms for years.
When they happen, Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia symptoms may include:
Fatigue.
Fever.
Weight loss.
Night sweats.
Numbness in the hands or feet.
Swollen lymph nodes.
A feeling of pain or fullness under the ribs on your left side, which may be caused by an enlarged spleen.
Easy bruising.
Bleeding nose or gums.
Headache.
Shortness of breath.
Changes in vision.
Confusion.
Causes for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia :
Cancer happens when cells develop changes in their DNA. A cell's DNA holds the instructions that tell a cell what to do. The changes tell the cells to multiply quickly. The cells continue living when healthy cells would die as part of their natural lifecycle.
In Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia, the changes happen in the white blood cells. The changes turn some of the white blood cells into cancer cells. It's not clear what causes the changes.
The cancer cells can build up in the spongy material inside the bones where blood cells are made. This material is called bone marrow. The cancer cells crowd healthy blood cells out of the bone marrow. The cancer cells also may build up in the lymph nodes and the spleen.
Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia cells make a protein that the body can't use. The protein is immunoglobulin M, which is also called IgM. IgM can build up in the blood. This may reduce blood flow in the body and cause other problems.
Risk Factors for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia:
Factors that can increase the risk of Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia include:
Being older. Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia can occur at any age, but it's most often found in adults 70 and older.
Being male. Males are more likely to have Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia.
Being white. White people are more likely to develop the disease, compared with people of other races.
Having a family history of lymphoma. Having a relative who has Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia or another type of B-cell lymphoma might increase your risk.
There are no Complications available for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Wet macular degeneration
Overview of Wet macular degeneration:
Wet macular degeneration is a long-lasting eye disorder that causes blurred vision or a blind spot in the central vision. It's usually caused by blood vessels that leak fluid or blood into the macula (MAK-u-luh). The macula is the part of the retina that gives the eye clear vision in the direct line of sight.
Wet macular degeneration is one of two types of age-related macular degeneration. The other type, dry macular degeneration, is more common and less severe. The wet type always begins as the dry type.
Early detection and treatment of wet macular degeneration may help reduce vision loss. In some instances, early treatment may recover vision.
Home Remedies for Wet macular degeneration:
Even after receiving a diagnosis of wet macular degeneration, you can take steps that may help slow vision loss.
Don't smoke. If you smoke, ask your health care provider for help quitting.
Choose a healthy diet. The antioxidant vitamins in fruits and vegetables contribute to eye health. Kale, spinach, broccoli, squash and other vegetables have high levels of antioxidants, including lutein and zeaxanthin. These nutrients may benefit people with macular degeneration.
Eating foods containing high levels of zinc also may be helpful for people with macular degeneration. These include high-protein foods, such as beef, pork and lamb. Nonmeat sources include milk, cheese, yogurt, whole-grain cereals and whole-wheat bread.
Another good choice is healthy unsaturated fat, such as in olive oil. And research studies have shown that a diet high in omega-3 fatty acids, such as in salmon, tuna and walnuts, may lower the risk of advanced macular degeneration. But the same benefit is not shown from taking omega-3 supplements, such as fish oil pills.
Manage your other medical conditions. If you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, for example, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Have routine eye exams. Ask your eye doctor about the recommended schedule for follow-up exams. In between checkups, you can do a self-assessment of your vision using an Amsler grid.
Vitamin supplements
For people with intermediate or advanced disease, taking a high-dose formulation of antioxidant vitamins and minerals may help reduce the risk of vision loss. Research from the Age-Related Eye Disease Study 2 (AREDS2) has shown benefit in a formulation that includes:
500 milligrams (mg) of vitamin C.
400 international units (IU) of vitamin E.
10 mg of lutein.
2 mg of zeaxanthin.
80 mg of zinc (as zinc oxide).
2 mg of copper (as cupric oxide).
Ask your health care provider if taking supplements is right for you.
More Information
Wet macular degeneration care at Mayo Clinic
Living better with vision loss
Symptoms for Wet macular degeneration :
Wet macular degeneration symptoms usually appear suddenly and worsen quickly. They may include:
Visual distortions, such as straight lines seeming bent.
Reduced central vision in one or both eyes.
The need for brighter light when reading or doing close-up work.
Difficulty adjusting to low light levels, such as when entering a dimly lit restaurant or theater.
Increased blurriness of printed words.
Difficulty recognizing faces.
A well-defined blurry spot or blind spot in the field of vision.
Macular degeneration doesn't affect side vision, so it doesn't cause total blindness.
Causes for Wet macular degeneration :
No one knows the exact cause of wet macular degeneration, but it develops in people who have dry macular degeneration. Of all people with age-related macular degeneration, about 20% have the wet form.
Wet macular degeneration can develop in different ways:
Vision loss caused by irregular blood vessel growth. Sometimes irregular new blood vessels grow from the choroid under and into the macula. This is known as choroidal neovascularization. The choroid is the layer of blood vessels between the retina and the outer, firm coat of the eye, called the sclera. These blood vessels may leak fluid or blood, affecting the retina's function.
Vision loss caused by fluid buildup in the back of the eye. When fluid leaks from the choroid, it can collect between the thin cell layer called the retinal pigment epithelium and the retina or within the layers of the retina. This may cause irregularities in the macula layers, resulting in vision loss or distortion.
Risk Factors for Wet macular degeneration:
Factors that may increase your risk of macular degeneration include:
Age. This disease is most common in people over 55.
Family history and genetics. This disease has a genetic component. Researchers have identified several genes linked to the condition.
Race. Macular degeneration is more common in white people.
Smoking. Smoking cigarettes or being regularly exposed to tobacco smoke greatly increases your risk of macular degeneration.
Obesity. Research indicates that being obese increases the chance that early or intermediate macular degeneration will progress to a more severe form of the disease.
Cardiovascular disease. If you have diseases that affect your heart and blood vessels, you may be at higher risk of macular degeneration.
Complications for Wet macular degeneration:
People whose wet macular degeneration has progressed to central vision loss have a higher risk of depression and social isolation. With profound loss of vision, people may see visual hallucinations. This condition is known as Charles Bonnet syndrome.
Preventions for Wet macular degeneration
It's important to have routine eye exams to identify early signs of macular degeneration. The following measures may help reduce your risk of developing wet macular degeneration:
Manage all other medical conditions. For example, if you have cardiovascular disease or high blood pressure, take your medicine and follow your health care provider's instructions for controlling the condition.
Don't smoke. Smokers are more likely to develop macular degeneration than nonsmokers. Ask your provider for help stopping smoking.
Maintain a healthy weight and exercise regularly. If you need to lose weight, reduce the number of calories you eat and increase the amount of exercise you get each day.
Choose a diet rich in fruits and vegetables. These foods contain antioxidant vitamins that reduce your risk of developing macular degeneration.
Include fish in your diet. Omega-3 fatty acids, which are found in fish, may reduce the risk of macular degeneration. Nuts such as walnuts also contain omega-3 fatty acids.
Condition name:Whiplash
Overview of Whiplash:
Whiplash is a neck injury due to forceful, rapid back-and-forth movement of the neck, like the cracking of a whip.
Whiplash is commonly caused by rear-end car crashes. But whiplash also can result from sports accidents, physical abuse and other types of traumas, such as a fall. Whiplash may be called a neck sprain or strain, but these terms also include other types of neck injuries.
Most people with whiplash get better within a few weeks by following a treatment plan that includes pain medicine and exercise. However, some people have long-lasting neck pain and other complications.
There are no home remedies available for Whiplash in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Whiplash :
Symptoms of whiplash most often start within days of the injury. They may include:
Neck pain and stiffness.
Pain that gets worse with neck movement.
Loss of range of motion in the neck.
Headaches, most often starting at the base of the skull.
Tenderness or pain in the shoulder, upper back or arms.
Tingling or numbness in the arms.
Tiredness.
Dizziness.
Some people also have:
Blurred vision.
Ringing in the ears, called tinnitus.
Trouble sleeping.
Crankiness.
Trouble focusing.
Memory problems.
Depression.
Causes for Whiplash :
Whiplash most often occurs when the head is quickly thrown backward and then forward with force. This often happens as a result of a rear-end car crash. This motion can cause damage to the muscles and tissues of the neck.
Risk Factors for Whiplash:
Risk factors for whiplash include:
Rear-end car crash. This is the most common risk factor for getting whiplash.
Physical abuse or assault. Whiplash can occur if you are punched or shaken. It's one of the injuries seen in shaken baby syndrome.
Contact sports. Football tackles and other sports-related contact hits sometimes can cause whiplash.
Complications for Whiplash:
Most people who have whiplash feel better within a few weeks. They don't seem to have lasting effects from the injury. But some people have pain for months or years after the injury.
It's hard to predict how recovery from whiplash might go. As a rule, you may be more likely to have ongoing pain if your first symptoms were intense, started quickly and included:
Severe neck pain.
More-limited range of motion.
Pain that spread to the arms.
The following risk factors have been linked to a worse outcome:
Having had whiplash before.
Older age.
Already having low back or neck pain.
A high-speed injury.
There are no preventive measures available for Whiplash in the knowledge baseCondition name:Wilms tumor
Overview of Wilms tumor:
Wilms tumor is a rare kidney cancer that mainly affects children. Also known as nephroblastoma, it's the most common cancer of the kidneys in children. Wilms tumor most often affects children ages 3 to 4. It becomes much less common after age 5, but it can affect older children and even adults.
Wilms tumor mostly occurs in just one kidney. But it can sometimes be in both kidneys at the same time.
Over the years, progress in the diagnosis and treatment of Wilms tumor has greatly improved the prognosis for children with this disease. With treatment, the outlook for most children with Wilms tumor is good.
There are no home remedies available for Wilms tumor in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Wilms tumor :
Symptoms of Wilms tumor vary a lot. Some children don't seem to have any symptoms. But others with Wilms tumor have one or more of these symptoms:
A mass in the stomach area that can be felt.
Swelling in the stomach area.
Pain in the stomach area.
Other symptoms might include:
Fever.
Blood in the urine.
Low red blood cell level, also known as anemia.
High blood pressure.
Causes for Wilms tumor :
It's not clear what causes Wilms tumor.
Cancer begins when cells develop changes in their DNA. Cells' DNA holds the instructions that tell the cells what to do. The changes tell the cells to grow and multiply quickly. The cancer cells live while healthy cells die as part of their natural life cycle. With Wilms tumor, the changes make extra cells in the kidney that form the tumor.
Rarely, DNA changes passed from parents to children can increase the risk of Wilms tumor.
Risk Factors for Wilms tumor:
Factors that may increase the risk of Wilms tumor include:
Being Black. In North America and Europe, Black children have a slightly higher risk of getting Wilms tumor than do children of other races. Asian-American children appear to have a lower risk than children of other races.
Having a family history of Wilms tumor. Having someone in the family who's had Wilms tumor increases the risk of getting the disease.
Wilms tumor occurs more often in children who have certain conditions present at birth, including:
Aniridia. In aniridia (an-ih-RID-e-uh), the colored portion of the eye, known as the iris, forms only in part or not at all.
Hemihypertrophy. Hemihypertrophy (hem-e-hi-PUR-truh-fee) means one side of the body or a part of the body is larger than the other side.
Wilms tumor can occur as part of rare syndromes, including:
WAGR syndrome. This syndrome includes Wilms tumor, aniridia, genital and urinary system problems, and intellectual disabilities.
Denys-Drash syndrome. This syndrome includes Wilms tumor, kidney disease and male pseudohermaphroditism (soo-do-her-MAF-roe-dit-iz-um). In male pseudohermaphroditism, a boy's genitals aren't clearly male.
Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome. Children with this syndrome tend to be much larger than what is typical, known as macrosomia. This syndrome might cause organs in the stomach area to jut into the base of the umbilical cord, a large tongue, large internal organs and ears that are formed unusually.
There are no Complications available for Wilms tumor in the knowledge basePreventions for Wilms tumor
Wilms tumor can't be prevented.
If a child has any of the conditions that increase the risk for Wilms tumor, a health care provider might suggest doing kidney ultrasounds at times to look for anything unusual in the kidneys. Although this screening can't prevent Wilms tumor, it may help find the disease at an early stage.
Condition name:Wilson's disease
Overview of Wilson's disease:
Wilson's disease is a rare inherited condition that causes copper levels to build up in several organs, especially the liver, brain and eyes. Most people with Wilson's disease are diagnosed between the ages of 5 and 35. But younger and older people can be affected too.
Copper plays a key role in building healthy nerves, bones, collagen and the skin pigment melanin. You usually take in copper from the food you eat. Your liver produces a substance called bile that removes any extra copper.
But in people with Wilson's disease, copper isn't removed properly and instead builds up. Sometimes it can be life-threatening if it's not treated. When diagnosed early, Wilson's disease is treatable, and many people with the condition live normal lives.
Home Remedies for Wilson's disease:
If you have Wilson's disease, your doctor likely will recommend that you limit the amount of copper in your diet. Also, if you have copper pipes in your home, you might want to test the copper levels in your tap water. Be sure to stay away from multivitamins that contain copper.
Foods that contain high amounts of copper include:
Liver.
Shellfish.
Mushrooms.
Nuts.
Chocolate.
Ask your healthcare team for more information on foods that have high amounts of copper.
Symptoms for Wilson's disease :
Wilson's disease is present at birth, but symptoms don't appear until copper levels build up in the brain, liver, eyes or another organ. Symptoms vary based on the parts of your body the disease affects.
These symptoms can include:
Tiredness and loss of appetite.
A yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eye, known as jaundice.
Golden-brown or copper-colored rings around the irises of the eyes, known as Kayser-Fleischer rings.
Fluid buildup in the legs or stomach area.
Problems with speech, swallowing or physical coordination.
Depression, mood changes and personality changes.
Having a hard time falling asleep and staying asleep.
Uncontrolled movements or muscle stiffness.
Causes for Wilson's disease :
Wilson's disease is caused by a changed gene passed down from each parent. If you get only one affected gene, you won't get the disease yourself, but you'll be a carrier. This means you could pass the affected gene to your children.
Risk Factors for Wilson's disease:
You can be at greater risk of Wilson's disease if your parents or siblings have the condition. Ask your doctor whether you should have genetic testing to find out if you have Wilson's disease. Diagnosing the condition as early as possible greatly increases the chances of successful treatment.
Complications for Wilson's disease:
If Wilson's disease isn't treated, sometimes it can lead to death. Serious complications include:
Scarring of the liver, also known as cirrhosis. As liver cells try to repair damage due to high copper levels, scar tissue forms in the liver. This makes it harder for the liver to work.
Liver failure. This can occur suddenly — what's known as acute liver failure or decompensated Wilson's disease. It also can come about slowly over years. A liver transplant might be a treatment option.
Lasting nervous system issues. Tremors, involuntary muscle movements, clumsy walking and having a hard time speaking usually improve with treatment for Wilson's disease. But some people have lasting nervous system problems, even with treatment.
Kidney problems. Wilson's disease can damage the kidneys, leading to issues such as kidney stones and an unusual number of amino acids removed in the urine.
Mental health issues. These might include personality changes, depression, irritability, bipolar disorder or psychosis.
Blood problems. These might include the destruction of red blood cells — what's known as hemolysis. This leads to anemia and jaundice.
There are no preventive measures available for Wilson's disease in the knowledge baseCondition name:Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome
Overview of Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome:
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a heart condition present at birth. That means it's a congenital heart defect. People with WPW syndrome have an extra pathway for signals to travel between the heart's upper and lower chambers. This causes a fast heartbeat. Changes in the heartbeat can make it harder for the heart to work as it should.
WPW syndrome is fairly rare. Another name for it is preexcitation syndrome.
The episodes of fast heartbeats seen in Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome usually aren't life-threatening. But serious heart problems can occur. Rarely, the syndrome may lead to sudden cardiac death in children and young adults.
Treatment of WPW syndrome may include special actions, medicines, a shock to the heart or a procedure to stop the irregular heartbeats.
Home Remedies for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome:
If you have WPW syndrome or any type of heart disease, your healthcare team usually recommends following a heart-healthy lifestyle. Take these steps:
Do not smoke.
Eat a healthy diet.
Get regular exercise.
Limit or avoid alcohol.
Avoid caffeine or other stimulants.
Maintain a healthy weight.
Manage emotional stress.
Symptoms for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome :
The heart rate is the number of times the heart beats each minute. A fast heart rate is called tachycardia (tak-ih-KAHR-dee-uh).
The most common symptom of Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a heart rate greater than 100 beats a minute.
In WPW syndrome, the fast heartbeat can begin suddenly. It may last a few seconds or several hours. Episodes may occur during exercise or while at rest.
Other symptoms of WPW syndrome may depend on the speed of the heartbeat and the underlying heart rhythm disorder.
For example, the most common irregular heartbeat seen with WPW syndrome is supraventricular tachycardia (SVT). During an episode of SVT, the heart beats about 150 to 220 times a minute, but it can occasionally beat faster or slower.
Some people with WPW syndrome also have a fast and chaotic heart rhythm disorder called atrial fibrillation.
In general, symptoms of WPW syndrome include:
Rapid, fluttering or pounding heartbeats.
Chest pain.
Difficulty breathing.
Dizziness or lightheadedness.
Fainting.
Fatigue.
Shortness of breath.
Anxiety.
Causes for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome :
Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome is a heart condition present at birth. That means it's a congenital heart defect. Researchers aren't sure what causes most types of congenital heart defects. WPW syndrome may occur with other congenital heart defects, such as Ebstein anomaly.
Rarely, WPW syndrome is passed down through families. Your healthcare team may call this inherited or familial WPW syndrome. It is associated with a thickened heart muscle, called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
To understand the causes of WPW syndrome, it may be helpful to know how the heart typically beats.
The heart has four chambers.
The two upper chambers are called the atria.
The two lower chambers are called the ventricles.
Inside the upper right heart chamber is a group of cells called the sinus node. The sinus node makes the signals that start each heartbeat.
The signals move across the upper heart chambers. Next, the signals arrive at a group of cells called the atrioventricular (AV) node, where they usually slow down. The signals then go to the lower heart chambers.
In a typical heart, this signaling process usually goes smoothly. The resting heart rate is about 60 to 100 beats a minute.
In WPW syndrome, an extra electrical pathway connects the upper and lower heart chambers, allowing heart signals to bypass the AV node. As a result, the heart signals don't slow down. The signals get excited, and the heart rate gets faster. The extra pathway also can cause heart signals to travel backward. This causes an uncoordinated heart rhythm.
There are no Risk Factors available for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome in the knowledge baseComplications for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome:
WPW syndrome has been linked to sudden cardiac death in children and young adults.
There are no preventive measures available for Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome in the knowledge baseCondition name:Wrinkles
Overview of Wrinkles:
Wrinkles are a natural part of aging. These lines and creases in the skin are most likely to form on skin that's often exposed to the sun, such as the face, neck, hands and forearms. Pollutants and smoking also speed the aging process. Using sunscreen every day and quitting smoking help prevent some wrinkling.
If your wrinkles bother you, many options are available to help smooth them or make them less visible. These include medicines, skin-resurfacing techniques, fillers and surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Wrinkles in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Wrinkles :
Wrinkles are the lines and creases that form in your skin. Some wrinkles become deep and may be especially noticeable around the eyes, mouth and neck.
Causes for Wrinkles :
Wrinkles are caused by several factors — some you can control, others you can't:
Age. With aging, the skin naturally becomes less elastic and drier, with less fat and collagen in the deeper layers. This process results in the lines and creases typical of wrinkling. It also causes loose, saggy skin.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation. Ultraviolet radiation from sunlight and other sources speeds the skin's aging process, especially in people who tend to sunburn easily. It breaks down the elastin fibers and collagen in skin. Without these supportive connective tissues, the skin loses strength and flexibility.
Smoking and pollution. Smoking and air pollutants speed the aging process.
Repeated facial expressions. Facial movements and expressions lead to fine lines and wrinkles. For example, every time you squint, smile and frown, tiny grooves form beneath the surface of the skin. As skin ages, it loses its flexibility and can no longer spring back. These grooves then become features of the face.
Family history. The genes you inherit play a big part in the look and feel of your skin.
There are no Risk Factors available for Wrinkles in the knowledge baseThere are no Complications available for Wrinkles in the knowledge basePreventions for Wrinkles
Here are some tips for slowing the effects of sun exposure and other causes of wrinkles:
Protect your skin from UV radiation. Avoid indoor tanning and limit the time you spend in the sun, especially midday. When you're in the sun, wear sun-protective clothing, such as wide-brimmed hats, long-sleeved shirts and sunglasses. Also, use sunscreen every day year-round. Choose a broad-spectrum sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30, even on cloudy days. Apply sunscreen generously. Reapply every two hours, or more often if you're swimming or sweating.
Wash your face and moisturize. Dry skin shrivels plump skin cells, which can lead to fine lines and wrinkles. Make it a habit to gently wash your face and moisturize it every day. Moisturizing traps water in the skin.
Moisturizers often have active ingredients that are intended to reduce fine lines and wrinkles. Look for ingredients such as retinol, niacinamide and vitamin C. Many such products also come with a broad-spectrum sunscreen in them. Read the product labels for when and how to apply. Products with retinol or retinoids are not for use when pregnant.
Another option you can buy without a prescription is adapalene (Differin). This is a vitamin A-derived product that can help prevent fine lines and wrinkles.
It may take a few weeks or even months of regular use of the product before you notice any improvement in your skin. Or you may see no change at all. Moisturizers and wrinkle creams that you can buy without a prescription aren't classified as medicine, so they aren't required to undergo scientific research to prove they work. If you're not happy with the results, talk with your healthcare team about moisturizers with prescription-strength anti-wrinkle ingredients, such as retinoids.
Don't smoke. Even if you've smoked for years or smoke heavily, you can still improve your skin and prevent wrinkles by quitting smoking.
Eat a healthy diet. There is some evidence that certain vitamins in your diet help protect the skin. More study is needed on the role of nutrition in preventing wrinkles, but it's good to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables.
Condition name:Wrist pain
Overview of Wrist pain:
Wrist pain is often caused by sprains or fractures from sudden injuries. But wrist pain also can result from long-term problems, such as repetitive stress, arthritis and carpal tunnel syndrome.
Because so many factors can lead to wrist pain, diagnosing the exact cause can be difficult. But an accurate diagnosis is essential for proper treatment and healing.
Home Remedies for Wrist pain:
Wrist pain doesn't always require medical treatment. For a minor wrist injury, apply ice and wrap your wrist with an elastic bandage.
Symptoms for Wrist pain :
Wrist pain may vary, depending on the cause. For example, osteoarthritis pain often is described as being similar to a dull toothache. Carpal tunnel syndrome usually causes a pins-and-needles feeling. This tingling sensation usually occurs in the thumb and index and middle fingers, especially at night. The precise location of wrist pain also provides clues to what's behind the symptoms.
Causes for Wrist pain :
Damage to any of the parts of your wrist can cause pain and affect your ability to use your wrist and hand. The damage may result from:
Risk Factors for Wrist pain:
Wrist pain can happen to anyone — whether you're very sedentary, very active or somewhere in between. But the risk may be increased by:
Sports participation. Wrist injuries are common in many sports, both those that involve impact and those that involve repetitive stress on the wrist. These can include football, bowling, golf, gymnastics, snowboarding and tennis.
Repetitive work. Almost any activity that involves your hands and wrists, even knitting and cutting hair, if performed forcefully enough and often enough can lead to disabling wrist pain.
Certain diseases or conditions. Pregnancy, diabetes, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis and gout may increase the risk of developing carpal tunnel syndrome.
There are no Complications available for Wrist pain in the knowledge basePreventions for Wrist pain
It's impossible to prevent the unforeseen events that often cause wrist injuries, but these basic tips may offer some protection:
Build bone strength. Getting adequate amounts of calcium can help prevent fractures. For most adults, that means 1,000 to 1,200 milligrams a day.
Prevent falls. Falling forward onto an outstretched hand is the main cause of most wrist injuries. To help prevent falls, wear sensible shoes. Remove home hazards. Light up your living space. And install grab bars in your bathroom and handrails on your stairways, if necessary.
Use protective gear for athletic activities. Wear wrist guards for high-risk activities, such as football, snowboarding and rollerblading.
Pay attention to ergonomics. If you spend long periods at a keyboard, take regular breaks. When you type, keep your wrists in a relaxed, neutral position. An ergonomic keyboard and a foam or gel wrist support may help.
Condition name:X-linked agammaglobulinemia
Overview of X-linked agammaglobulinemia:
X-linked agammaglobulinemia (a-gam-uh-glob-u-lih-NEE-me-uh), also called XLA, is an immune system disorder that's passed through families, called inherited. XLA makes it hard to fight infections. People with XLA might get infections of the inner ear, sinuses, respiratory tract, bloodstream and internal organs.
XLA almost always affects males. But females can carry the genes linked to the condition. Most people with XLA are diagnosed in infancy or early childhood, after they've had repeated infections. Some people aren't diagnosed until they're adults.
There are no home remedies available for X-linked agammaglobulinemia in the knowledge baseSymptoms for X-linked agammaglobulinemia :
Most babies with XLA appear healthy for the first few months. They're protected by the proteins called antibodies they got from their mothers before birth.
When these antibodies leave their systems, the babies begin to get repeat bacterial infections. The infections can be life-threatening. Infections might involve the ears, lungs, sinuses and skin.
Male infants born with XLA have:
Very small tonsils.
Small or no lymph nodes.
Causes for X-linked agammaglobulinemia :
X-linked agammaglobulinemia is caused by a change in a gene. People with the condition can't produce proteins called antibodies that fight infection. About 40% of people with the condition have a family member who has it.
There are no Risk Factors available for X-linked agammaglobulinemia in the knowledge baseComplications for X-linked agammaglobulinemia:
People with XLA can live mostly typical lives. They should try to take part in regular activities for their ages. But repeat infections linked to XLA will likely need careful watching and treatment. They can damage organs and be life-threatening.
Possible complications include:
Long-lasting, called chronic, lung disease.
Increased risk of certain cancers.
Infectious arthritis.
Increased risk of central nervous system infections from live vaccines.
There are no preventive measures available for X-linked agammaglobulinemia in the knowledge baseCondition name:Yeast infection (vaginal)
Overview of Yeast infection (vaginal):
A vaginal yeast infection is a fungal infection that causes irritation, discharge and intense itchiness of the vagina and the vulva — the tissues at the vaginal opening.
Also called vaginal candidiasis, vaginal yeast infection affects up to 3 out of 4 women at some point in their lifetimes. Many women experience at least two episodes.
A vaginal yeast infection isn't considered a sexually transmitted infection. But, there's an increased risk of vaginal yeast infection at the time of first regular sexual activity. There's also some evidence that infections may be linked to mouth to genital contact (oral-genital sex).
Medications can effectively treat vaginal yeast infections. If you have recurrent yeast infections — four or more within a year — you may need a longer treatment course and a maintenance plan.
There are no home remedies available for Yeast infection (vaginal) in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Yeast infection (vaginal) :
Yeast infection symptoms can range from mild to moderate, and include:
Itching and irritation in the vagina and vulva
A burning sensation, especially during intercourse or while urinating
Redness and swelling of the vulva
Vaginal pain and soreness
Vaginal rash
Thick, white, odor-free vaginal discharge with a cottage cheese appearance
Watery vaginal discharge
Causes for Yeast infection (vaginal) :
The fungus candida albicans is responsible for most vaginal yeast infections.
Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Certain bacteria (lactobacillus) act to prevent an overgrowth of yeast.
But that balance can be disrupted. An overgrowth of candida or penetration of the fungus into deeper vaginal cell layers causes the signs and symptoms of a yeast infection.
Overgrowth of yeast can result from:
Antibiotic use, which causes an imbalance in natural vaginal flora
Pregnancy
Uncontrolled diabetes
An impaired immune system
Taking oral contraceptives or hormone therapy that increase estrogen levels
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and generally need more-aggressive therapies.
Risk Factors for Yeast infection (vaginal):
Factors that increase your risk of developing a yeast infection include:
Antibiotic use. Yeast infections are common in women who take antibiotics. Broad-spectrum antibiotics, which kill a range of bacteria, also kill healthy bacteria in your vagina, leading to overgrowth of yeast.
Increased estrogen levels. Yeast infections are more common in women with higher estrogen levels — such as pregnant women or women taking high-dose estrogen birth control pills or estrogen hormone therapy.
Uncontrolled diabetes. Women with poorly controlled blood sugar are at greater risk of yeast infections than women with well-controlled blood sugar.
Impaired immune system. Women with lowered immunity — such as from corticosteroid therapy or HIV infection — are more likely to get yeast infections.
There are no Complications available for Yeast infection (vaginal) in the knowledge basePreventions for Yeast infection (vaginal)
To reduce your risk of vaginal yeast infections, wear underwear that has a cotton crotch and doesn't fit too tightly.
It might also help to avoid:
Tight-fitting pantyhose
Douching, which removes some of the normal bacteria in the vagina that protect you from infection
Scented feminine products, including bubble bath, pads and tampons
Hot tubs and very hot baths
Unnecessary antibiotic use, such as for colds or other viral infections
Staying in wet clothes, such as swimsuits and workout attire, for long periods of time
Condition name:Yips
Overview of Yips:
The yips are involuntary wrist spasms that occur most commonly when golfers are trying to putt. However, the yips also can affect people who play other sports — such as cricket, darts and baseball.
It was once thought that the yips were always associated with performance anxiety. However, it now appears that some people have the yips due to a neurological condition affecting specific muscles. This condition is known as focal dystonia.
Changing the way you perform the affected task might help you find relief from the yips. For example, a right-handed golfer might try putting left-handed.
There are no home remedies available for Yips in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Yips :
The most common symptom associated with the yips is an involuntary muscle jerk, although some people experience tremors, twitches, spasms or freezing.
Causes for Yips :
In some people, the yips are a type of focal dystonia, a condition that causes involuntary muscle contractions during a specific task. It's most likely related to overuse of a certain set of muscles, similar to writer's cramp. Anxiety worsens the effect.
Some athletes become so anxious and self-focused — overthinking to the point of distraction — that their ability to perform a skill, such as putting, is impaired. "Choking" is an extreme form of performance anxiety that may have a harmful effect on a golfer's or any athlete's game.
Risk Factors for Yips:
The yips tend to be associated with:
Older age.
More experience playing golf.
Tournament play.
There are no Complications available for Yips in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Yips in the knowledge baseCondition name:Zenker's diverticulum
Overview of Zenker's diverticulum:
In Zenker's diverticulum, a bulge or pouch forms at the top of the tube that connects the throat to the stomach, called the esophagus. The condition is not common. Connected bands of muscle that work to pass food from the mouth to the stomach make up the esophagus.
Over time, the bulge of Zenker's diverticulum can get bigger. Food, pills and even thick mucus can get stuck in the pouch instead of going through the esophagus. This can lead to problems with eating and other complications.
The cause of Zenker's diverticulum is not known. It happens most often to men older than 60. Treatment for symptoms of Zenker's diverticulum often is surgery.
There are no home remedies available for Zenker's diverticulum in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Zenker's diverticulum :
A small Zenker's diverticulum may not have any symptoms. But the bulge may get bigger over time. It can trap food, mucus and pills. Symptoms might include:
Trouble swallowing, called dysphagia.
Burping.
A gurgling noise at the back of the throat.
Coughing.
Hoarseness.
Bad breath.
Choking.
If the pouch gets big enough, what's in it may spill into the throat. Then Zenker's diverticulum symptoms might include:
Feeling of food stuck in the throat.
Coughing up or spitting up food 1 to 2 hours after eating. This is called regurgitation.
Breathing food into the lungs, called aspirating.
Causes for Zenker's diverticulum :
The cause of Zenker's diverticulum isn't known. It's not known why the walls of the esophagus change to form a bulge or pouch in the condition.
The cause of Zenker's diverticulum might involve the muscles of the esophagus not working together. Most often, a muscle at the top of the esophagus relaxes to let the food down. If that doesn't happen, food can get trapped in the esophagus.
If the muscle in the area where the food gets trapped is weak, the food can cause the esophagus to bulge and form a pouch.
Risk Factors for Zenker's diverticulum:
Risk factors for Zenker's diverticulum include:
Being older than 60.
Being male.
Having gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) or a condition in which part of the stomach bulges into the chest, called a hiatal hernia.
Having spinal surgery.
Complications for Zenker's diverticulum:
Complications can happen if Zenker's diverticulum isn't treated. The bulge of Zenker's diverticulum can get larger if it's not treated. Complications of Zenker's diverticulum can include:
Lung infection. Breathing in food, called aspirating, can lead to a lung infection. This is called aspiration pneumonia.
Weight loss and not getting enough nutrients, called malnutrition. Trouble swallowing can lead to weight loss and malnutrition.
There are no preventive measures available for Zenker's diverticulum in the knowledge baseCondition name:Zollinger-Ellison syndrome
Overview of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome:
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is a rare condition in which one or more tumors grow in the pancreas or in the upper part of the small intestine. The tumors are called gastrinomas. These gastrinomas produce large amounts of the hormone gastrin. Gastrin causes the stomach to produce too much acid, which leads to peptic ulcers. High gastrin levels also can cause diarrhea, belly pain and other symptoms.
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may occur at any time in life. However, people usually find out they have it sometime between ages 20 and 60. Medicines to cut down stomach acid and heal the ulcers are the usual treatment. Some people also may need surgery to remove tumors.
There are no home remedies available for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in the knowledge baseSymptoms for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome :
Symptoms of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome may include:
Stomach pain.
Diarrhea.
Burning, aching or discomfort in your upper abdomen.
Acid reflux and heartburn.
Burping.
Nausea and vomiting.
Bleeding in your digestive tract.
Losing weight without trying.
Loss of appetite.
Causes for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome :
The exact cause of Zollinger-Ellison syndrome isn't known. But the pattern of events that occurs in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome typically follows the same sequence. The syndrome begins when one or more tumors form in your pancreas or a part of your small intestine called the duodenum. The duodenum is the section connected to your stomach. Sometimes the tumors form at other sites, such as the lymph nodes next to your pancreas.
Your pancreas sits behind and below your stomach. It makes enzymes that are needed for digesting food. The pancreas also makes many hormones, including insulin. Insulin is the hormone that helps control your blood sugar, also called glucose.
Digestive juices from the pancreas, liver and gallbladder mix in the duodenum. This is where most of your digestion happens.
The tumors that occur with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome are made up of cells that secrete large amounts of the hormone gastrin. For this reason, they are sometimes referred to as gastrinomas. Increased gastrin causes the stomach to make far too much acid. The excess acid then leads to peptic ulcers and sometimes to diarrhea.
Besides causing excess acid production, the tumors are often cancerous. Although the tumors tend to grow slowly, the cancer can spread elsewhere — most commonly to nearby lymph nodes or your liver.
Risk Factors for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome:
If you have a first-degree relative, such as a sibling or parent, with MEN 1, it's more likely that you'll have Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
There are no Complications available for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in the knowledge baseThere are no preventive measures available for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome in the knowledge base